A facility of OCI TerraSus in Malaysia. The company has secured a $125 million investment from the International Finance Corp.for its factory under construction in the Southeast Asian country. Photo by OCI Holdings SEOUL, March 30 (UPI) -- South Korean chemical manufacturer OCI Holdings said Monday its Malaysian subsidiary, OCI TerraSus, secured a $125 million investment from the International Finance Corp., which is affiliated with the World Bank Group. OCI Holdings said that the funds would be used toward building and operating a polysilicon factory, which is under construction in the Southeast Asian country. Last year, OCI TerraSus partnered with Japan's Tokuyama to build a $435 million factory to produce semiconductor-grade polysilicon in Bintulu, Sarawak, East Malaysia. OCI Holdings noted that the IFC's decision came after a comprehensive evaluation of the project's business viability and its commitment to environmental, social and governance standards. "Securing this investment as the first recipient in Sarawak after meeting the IFC's rigorous screening standards is a landmark achievement," OCI Holdings said in a statement. "Moving forward, we remain committed to strengthening our sustainable management practices in alignment with global benchmarks," it said. The Korea-Japan joint venture, named OCI Tokuyama Semiconductor Materials, is scheduled to begin polysilicon production in 2029 with an annual capacity of 8,000 metric tons. Polysilicon, composed of numerous small silicon crystals, is a critical material for high-tech applications, including solar panels, flat-panel displays and aerospace sensors. Semiconductor manufacturing requires an ultra-pure variant, as even trace impurities can lead to device failure. While "9N," or 99.9999999% purity, is the standard benchmark for semiconductor-grade silicon, the new Malaysian facility will implement advanced purification processes to reach an even higher "11N" purity level, according to OCI Holdings. The share price of OCI Holdings jumped 6.43% on the Seoul bourse on Monday, while the benchmark KOSPI declined 2.97%.