While smartwatches do come in all sorts of shapes and styles, the fact is that some of the best ones on the market are going to come from Apple. If you’re looking to really treat yourself, and you own an iPhone, then the Apple Watch series is nearly always going to be your best bet. While these can be incredibly expensive a lot of the time, the Amazon Big Spring Sale is on right now, which means it’s the perfect time to go shopping. There are a few great options here, but right now, your best bet is the Apple Watch Series 9, not only because it’s fantastic, but because we’ve found a deal which knocks a huge 48% off of it. That’s not a deal you’re going to see very often on Apple devices, so if you want to get this while it’s down to $419, you’ll need to be quick, this won’t stick around for long. See at Amazon A Stunning Smartwatch The Apple Watch Series 9 boasts some of the fastest processing going, and it has a stunning always-on Retina Display as well, which means that everything you view on it will look sublime. Not only that, but this particular case and loop mean that it looks more like a high-end watch than an actual smartwatch, making it a better fit for more formal situations, or just those who like to add a touch of class to what they’re wearing. It looking good is a big part of the appeal, but it’s far from all it can do. Along with being a great way to check and deal with your notifications, this thing is an impressive way to track your health as well. You’ll be able to keep an eye on things like your blood oxygen, your sleep quality, and your stress levels just because you’re wearing it. It makes it an easy way to find out if you should be training harder, when you’re at your best, and when you should be resting instead. This smartwatch is truly amazing, and that’s evident by not only how much it can do, but the fact that most people pay $799 for it. That’s a huge amount of money, but it only makes the 48% discount here more impressive . So, if you’re looking to score yourself a deal worth shouting about, make sure you’re quick, and you’ll be able to pick this watch up while it’s down to $419. See at Amazon