There are a lot of portable devices out there, but if you want something a bit different, and with a decent amount of oomph to get your work done, then you’ll usually want to consider a Chromebook. These devices tend to be a lot more portable and a fair bit cheaper than laptops, and while they’re not as powerful, that’s not always an issue if your main aim is just to get stuff done. While there are plenty of good options out there, if you want something that’s going to help you get the job done quickly, and has some really good features, then getting this ASUS Chromebook Flip CX1 Convertible Laptop while it’s on sale with 24% off is a great idea. It means that you can buy it for $280, but only if you’re quick. See at Amazon Take It With You A big part of the appeal here is that this is a 14-inch laptop, which means that it’s not only a lot lighter than many other options, but also smaller in general. That’s great if you’re looking for something to have with you at all times, as it means you’re not going to be sweating just for doing so. Despite that size though, it’s still got a bit of power to it, with an Intel Celeron N4500 Processor keeping things going quickly, and the 8GB of RAM means you should be able to run most standard programs without much fuss too. While it doesn’t have a huge amount of memory, Chromebooks rarely do, as they expect you to use online storage when possible. The device itself can function as both a laptop and a tablet thanks to the 360-degree rotation and touchscreen functionality, and it’s surprisingly durable on top of that too. It just means that you can use it more situations, and you won’t have to worry about it getting damage as you’re using it in your day-to-day life. Plus, the battery life can last up to 11 hours on a full charge, which should cover most people’s work days. This is a great device, and being able to pick it up right now while it’s down to $280 is an excellent opportunity to get it while it’s a lot less than normal . We have no way of knowing how long the deal will actually last for though, so if you do want to pick this up you’ll need to be quick, or you run the risk of missing out on it. See at Amazon