Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google Spring is here, and Amazon's Big Spring Sale is live. We're seeing discounts of over 60% off across dozens of categories, including outdoor, home, beauty, tech, and more, and competing discounts from other retailers like Walmart , Best Buy , Target , and Costco . ZDNET reviews the best gear year-round, and we're here to help you cut through the noise and quickly find the best deals during the spring sale period before it ends. Also: The most popular Amazon Spring Sale deals, according to thousands of readers As ZDNET's deals and shopping editor, I am always scouring the web for the best offers on our team's favorite products. Our team of experts is tracking the best offers as they arise in real time. Here are the best Amazon Spring Sale deals we've found live now. The sale ends tomorrow, so snatch these while you can. The best Amazon Spring Sale deals 2026 Current price: $0.99 for 3 months Original price: $11.99/month Amazon is running an excellent deal on Kindle Unlimited right now: New and certain returning subscribers can access a library of over 5 million titles and thousands of audiobooks for just $0.99 for three months. If you don't cancel before the three months are up, you'll be auto-renewed at full price, but if you've been wanting to try out Kindle Unlimited, this is the best time to do so. Also: Get Kindle Unlimited for $0.99 a month with this Amazon Spring Sale deal - here's how Show more Current price: $16 Original price: $25 This handy car charger is our readers second most clicked on deal during Amazon's Spring Sale so far, and for good reason. It plugs into your car's cigarette lighter socket and includes a built-in USB-C cable, a Lightning cable, a USB-C port, and a USB-A port. The two cables extend up to 31.5 inches, making it easy for back-seat passengers to charge their devices. Also: This car charger is a must for long road trips - and it's cheap Show more Current price: $36 Original price: $80 The HiRise 2 Deluxe wireless charger lets you charge your iPhone, AirPods, and/or Apple Watch or other compatible devices in one compact space without a ton of cords. "This 2-in-1 Qi2 wireless charger is the simplest, best-designed desk chargers I've found," wrote ZDNET reviewer Kyle Kucharski. It comes in three colors, and all are discounted now. Also: This 2-in-1 wireless charger simplified my workspace (and freed me from the cables) Show more Current price: $59 Original price: $70 We're big fans of the AirFly Pro 2, which transforms any headphone jack into a Bluetooth transmitter, so you can use your own Bluetooth headphones to watch shows on planes. Connect up to two pairs of headphones at once. The Deluxe version, on sale now, comes with an International Airline Adapter and a premium travel bag. Also: Frequent flyers will love this tiny Bluetooth gadget, and it's on sale now Show more Current price: $2.99/ month for 2 months Original price: Up to $13.99/month Now until March 31, new and former Paramount+ subscribers can get any monthly plan for $2.99/month for your first two months. After two months, your plan will auto-renew at then-current full price of your plan. This is one of the best streaming offers we've seen since Black Friday, and they don't come around often. Show more Current price: $21 Original price: $40 While not a tech product, this is my most frequently used item of all time. Sure, it's not practical for outings in my opinion, but Stanley cups are dishwasher safe and easy to clean, and they keep drinks cold. Plus, at a 30-ounce capacity, it's an excellent way to keep yourself hydrated throughout the day and to encourage drinking more water. I also enjoy buying these on sale to use for gifts, they're perfect for stashing a few goodies inside and adding a bow or tag on! Show more Current price: $40 Original price: $70 We've been impressed by the quality of Soundcore by Anker headphones, and this is a great deal on a highly-rated pair, with 4.6 stars and over 58,000 reviews on Amazon at the time of this writing. Show more Current price: $250 Original price: $300 Smart home expert Maria Diaz says this Wi-Fi 7 router solved her big internet headache, and it's accessibly priced (especially on sale). Review: eero Pro 7 Show more Current price: $498 Original price: $798 Samsung's best projector also doubles as a gaming hub where you can play your favorite games anywhere—including outside. Auto Focus will adjust the picture for the best view possible, no matter if it's on your ceiling or the side of a building. Show more Current price: $599 Original price: $850 The popular Dyson cordless stick vacuum is on sale for 29% off. Show more Current price: $56 Original price: $80 Tax season is upon us, and you can save 30% on TurboTax's desktop edition for federal and state tax returns. Show more Current price: $25 Original price: $50 Amazon's Fire TV Stick 4K Plus can turn any TV smart. You'll get access to the entire Prime library of shows, movies, and music as well as support for hundreds of other popular apps so you can stream your favorite media right out of the box. Also: Roku vs. Fire Stick Show more Best Amazon Spring Sale TV deals Current price: $180 Original price: $350 The Insignia F50 is a great budget-friendly smart TV that offers 4K resolution, a 60Hz refresh rate, and support for DTS Virtual: X audio for an elevated experience while streaming movies, shows, or music. And with robust parental controls, you can block little ones from accessing inappropriate apps and media. Show more Current price: $999 Original price: $1,398 Samsung's flagship QLED TV offers premium-grade features like object-tracking sound for spatial surround sound, Dolby Atmos support, a glare-free display, and a dedicated gaming hub. It also has a maximum refresh rate of 165Hz for buttery-smooth motion while watching live sports, action movies and shows, and fast-paced games. Review: Samsung QN90F Show more Current price: $2,200 Original price: $3,000 Samsung's flagship OLED TV got a refresh with an updated panel, support for both Dolby Atmos and object-tracking sound, and an adaptive sound processor to tailor audio to your space for a more personalized experience. You'll also get cleaner upscaling of non-4K content so even classic TV shows and older movies look their best. Review: Samsung S95F OLED Show more Current price: $1,300 Original price: $1,700 This big-screen TV from Hisense offers a great balance between performance and price. With a peak brightness of 5,000 nits, you'll get great visibility in harsh overhead lighting and sunlight while Dolby Vision IQ boosts contrast and detailing. The 165Hz refresh rate provides smooth motion for sports, movies, and video games while the dedicated IMAX Enhanced picture mode boosts color accuracy for movie buffs. Review: Hisense U8QG Show more Current price: $897 Original price: $1,600 This premium soundbar supports both Dolby Atmos and DTS:X for 3D spatial sound that follows the on-screen action. It also uses an integrated sensor that automatically monitors the room's ambient sound and adjusts volume and other settings for a custom experience. Show more Current price: $1,698 Original price: $2,498 This cinema-sized TV from Samsung offer object tracking sound for spatial 3D audio as well as a Supersize Picture Enhancer mode to help provide the cleanest picture possible on such a large display. The 120Hz refresh rate smooths motion for live sports as well as console gaming and streaming movies while built-in voice controls give you hands-free use of your new TV. Show more Current price: $75 Original price: $130 If you're looking to pick up a second screen, the Insignia F20 is a great choice. With 720p resolution and a 60Hz refresh rate, it's perfect for catching up on your favorite shows without any extra bells or whistles. Show more Best Amazon Spring Sale tablet deals Current price: $650 Original price: $699 The new iPad Air hasn't even been out for a week, and it's already discounted on Amazon. The upgraded iPad Air features the M4 chip, support for Wi-Fi 7, upgraded processing power, larger memory bandwidth, and an improved Center Stage camera. Review: iPad Air M4 Show more Current price: $499 Original price: $569 If you're in the market for a note-taking tablet that's neither an iPad or a Kindle Scribe, the ReMarkable is another great option with a paper-like feel. Show more Current price: $850 Original price: $900 With the Surface Pro, you get a tablet that runs Windows 11 out of the box instead of a mobile operating system like Android or iPadOS. That means you won't have to worry about finding apps or workarounds for your workflows. Review: Microsoft Surface Pro Show more Current price: $250 Original price: $400 While not the latest Scribe edition, the older Scribe model is seeing an excellent discount of almost 40% off. This is the lowest price yet and a great deal if you don't need the latest upgrades. It's a ZDNET Editors' Choice award winner , too. Also: I tested the Kindle Scribe 2 for months, and it beat my ReMarkable in several ways Show more Current price: $240 Original price: $280 This new Samsung tablet is best suited for gaming, streaming, or multitasking, and comes with a super-fast charging battery. Samsung said the Galaxy Tab A11+ is "built for every member of the family, whether that's helping a parent check off their to-do list, unlocking a student's creativity, or enjoying some fun on the go." Also: The best Samsung tablets Show more Current price: $299 Original price: $349 Apple's base-model iPad is our pick for the best tablet for most people, thanks to its versatility. When it comes to features, you essentially get the same suite as the more expensive iPad Pro and iPad Air models, but in a lighter form factor and an 11-inch Liquid Retina True Tone display. Review: iPad 2025 (11th-Gen) Show more Best Amazon Spring Sale phone deals Current price: $949 Original price: $1,199 ZDNET's editor-in-chief, Kerry Wan, says the Google Pixel 10 Pro XL offers a versatile camera system with impeccable zoom capabilities. The phone is powered by Google's Tensor G5 chip, enabling deep Gemini AI integration across the device's features. Plus, it ensures speedy performance, thanks in no small part to the 16GB of RAM. It boasts a large 6.8-inch Super Actua display that peaks at 3,300 nits of brightness, allowing the phone to look vibrant even under direct sunlight. Show more Current price: $1,499 Original price: $1,799 Google's Pixel 10 Pro Fold is a unique foldable. Our reviewer Cesar Cadenas says he "likes to think of it as a cross between an iPhone and the Galaxy Z Fold7, since it shares certain characteristics with both." The Pro Fold supports Google's Pixelsnap accessories, which provide fast wireless charging via the Qi2 standard, similar to MagSafe accessories for iPhone. The Pixel 10 Pro Fold is a premium foldable with great performance thanks to the Tensor G5 chip. Both the Moonstone (silver) and Jade green options are on sale. Show more Current price: $800 Original price: $1,300 Motorola's Razr Ultra is an aesthetically striking foldable, sporting Pantone-validated finishes. Beyond its looks, the model offers plenty of functionality, with a four-inch outer display that lets you read messages, use widgets, and control media. Inside is a seven-inch AMOLED inner screen that's bright and features a less noticeable crease. Every single color option is currently on sale. Review: Motorola Razr Ultra Show more Best Amazon Spring Sale laptop deals Current price: $848 Original price: $999 The Zenbook A14 is one of the lightest laptops our reviewer Kyle Kucharski has ever tested. "Despite its featherweight status, however, it has a solid build and some respectable hardware. You get 16GB of RAM, a brilliant OLED display, and a Snapdragon X Plus processor for responsive performance (and fantastic battery life)," he says. Review: Asus Zenbook A14 The Zenbook A14 earned our Editors' Choice award last year for combining all of these things into an enjoyable package. The 2025 model is absolutely still competitive for everyday tasks, office workflows, and all-day usage. Show more Current price: $1,799 Original price: $1,899 The MacBook Pro with the base M5 chip is a fantastic option if you'd rather spend a little less. The difference in processing speed compared to the Pro chips is most noticeable during the most demanding workflows, so unless you really need top-tier performance, we recommend considering the base model Pro -- especially while it's $100 off. Also: I compared the M5 MacBook Pro to older Mac models - here's my buying advice Show more Current price: $720 Original price: $799 Acer's Aspire 16 is a reliable everyday workhorse with a very efficient battery and slim form factor. If you're looking for an easy-to-carry laptop that will last you all day, laptop expert Kyle Kucharski says the Aspire 16 fits the ticket (especially at this price). Review: Acer Aspire 16 AI Show more Current price: $1,399 Original price: $1,599 Samsung's Galaxy Book 5 Pro from last year features a brilliant 16-inch AMOLED touchscreen at 120Hz refresh. With 16GB of RAM and a 512GB SSD, you can get an extremely thin and light, big-screen laptop that delivers a premium user experience. Review: Samsung Galaxy Book 5 Pro Show more Current price: $999 Original price: $1,199 ZDNET editors are big fans of the 15-inch MacBook Air. With Apple's latest upgrades to the Air series (more starting RAM for the same price, support for two external monitors with the lid open), the MacBook Air M4 feels a lot like a MacBook Pro. With the thin and light build, gorgeous Liquid Retina display, and all-day battery with the power-efficient M4 processor, the MacBook Air is still the best Mac for most folks. Review: Apple MacBook Air M4 Show more Current price: $1,799 Original price: $1,999 The MacBook Pro M4 has only been out for a year, but it's already discounted to make room for the new M5 series Macs. The M4 is one of the best laptops on the consumer market right now, featuring a brilliant Liquid Retina XDR display, 24GB of unified memory, and all-day battery life. With the Pro, you're equipped to handle basically any kind of task, from high-end creative workflows to 3D animation, coding, and gaming. Also: Apple's boringly awesome reason to buy the M4 MacBook Pro Show more Current price: $799 Original price: $899 Looking for a gaming laptop that won't break the bank? Acer's Nitro series features some laptops with heavy-hitting hardware but still in accessible price points. The Nitro 5 features an Intel Core i5-12500H processor and Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 GPU, paired with 16GB of RAM and 512GB of storage. It's also got a backlit keyboard with customizable lighting, support for Killer Wi-Fi 6 and a wide range of I/O. Show more Current price: $830 Original price: $1,200 This laptop is chock full of ports, with 16GB RAM, and a 16-inch anti-glare display. Show more Best Amazon Spring Sale headphones deals Current price: $90 Original price: $130 The Anker Soundcore Liberty 7 earbuds received an Editors' Choice award in May 2025. Sound and audio expert Jack Wallen says they produce loud, dynamic, and refined sound for a far lower price than others on the market. Review: Anker Soundcore Liberty 7 Show more Current price: $398 Original price: $460 These may be the most comfortable and best-sounding headphones on the market. They have that superior Sony sound, a long battery life, a balanced sound, and a comfortable fit. Sony markets the XM6 headphones as the best noise-canceling headphones it's made -- and when I'm listening to my music on a crowded, loud subway with these on, I just so happen to agree. Also: Sony WH-1000XM6 review: Still the king of ANC headphones? My verdict after months of testing Show more Best Amazon Spring Sale kitchen and household deals Current price: $70 Original price: $110 This highly-rated single-cup Keurig machine comes in several fun colors, and can brew multiple cup sizes (and accommodate a travel mug). Show more Current price: $460 Original price: $750 This Dyson fan is also a heater and an air purifier, perhaps justifying it's large price tag -- which is discounted for one of the best prices we've ever seen. Show more Current price: $35 Original price: $50 Right now, you can save up to 45% off Amazon devices, including several Ring camera models, like the popular indoor cam for under $50. Show more Current price: $199 Original price: $350 I recommend this air purifier to all pet parents since it removes 99.97% of airborne particles, including viruses and bacteria, dust, pollen, pet dander, and mold. The real-time LED indicator also provides constant reassurance about the air quality. Show more Current price: $170 Original price: $220 If you're eyeing a smart home hub that's smaller and cheaper than the Echo Show 21, the Echo Show 11 may fit the bill. Expert Maria Diaz says it features some nicer upgrades that make it well-received this year. Also: I'm a fan of the Echo Show 11, even if it's not perfect Show more Current price: $14 Original price: $17 Automate your home routines with this smart plug. If you haven't used a smart plug before, you may be surprised by just how handy they can be for turning the regular tasks of your home into automated chores you no longer have to handle. For you, that could mean connecting the holiday lights to the plug and creating a schedule for turning them on and off. The smart plug could also connect to your coffee pot and brew you a pot right as you wake up. Also: Why this $7 smart plug beats any other that I've tested in my home Show more Current price: $75 Original price: $100 This Bissell mini-vacuum is popular for a reason: You can use it to tackle spills and pet stains, allowing you to spray, scrub, and suction to get embedded dirt and stains out of your furniture, car interiors, pet beds, and more. Show more Best Amazon Spring Sale health and wellness deals Current price: $500 Original price: $650 The lowest we've seen the latest Airwrap i.d. styler sell for is around $480 during the holiday season, so this $500 offer is about $20 more. It's still a decent chunk of savings, and the most we've seen in a few weeks. This Airwrap i.d. bundle comes with multiple attachments and is design for straight or wavy hair. Show more Current price: $99 Original price: $129 Monitor yours or a loved one's heart health at home with this personal EKG monitor that's FDA certified. It's also HSA/FSA eligible, and I think it's a great addition to a home first-aid kit. Show more Amazon is offering a sweet discount on Samsung's Ultra smartwatch from last year. When you purchase the Galaxy Watch Ultra from Amazon, you'll also get a $100 gift card to the shopping site. Since the smartwatch already costs $650 and this deal, which includes the titanium silver and titanium white finishes, costs $650 altogether, you're basically getting a $100 gift card at no additional cost. Pretty sweet. Samsung phone users will get the most out of this smartwatch, which offers days of battery life, a large, bright display, and a substantial watch size for bigger wrists. Also: I bought the 2025 version of Samsung's Galaxy Watch Ultra - here's the model I'd recommend instead Show more Current price: $70 Original price: $100 This tiny, unobtrusive tracker supports an expansive Fitbit ecosystem for capturing and monitoring key health and wellness data, such as wellness tracking, daily Stress Management Score, mindfulness sessions, relax breathing sessions, and irregular heart rhythm notifications. Show more Current price: $300 Original price: $400 If you want all-day battery life, Apple's latest health features (including a Hypertension Detection feature), sleep tracking, workout monitoring, and phone-free communication, the Apple Watch Series 11 is health and wearable expert Nina Raemont's best recommendation. In the three-product watch lineup, the Series 11 is in between the affordable SE 3 and the Ultra 4 in both features and price. Review: Apple Watch Series 11 Show more Current price: $63 Original price: $100 The Renpho Eye Massager uses compression, heat, and vibration to massage your eyes and temples, effectively giving your head and eyes a break. Especially if you stare at a screen all day, using this eye massager at the end of a workday is a game-changer. Show more Best Amazon Spring Sale outdoor deals Current price: $150 Original price: $200 The warmer weather is here and this outdoor cam doubles as a spotlight. Expert Maria Diaz was impressed with this one from Ring. It has a wide field of view, HDR video support, and an extra impressive feature. Also: This is my favorite backyard spotlight camera Show more Current price: $599 Original price: $899 If you want a fast-charging, easy-to-move, yet power-packed and port-packed power station, this is the unit for you. When charged from a standard wall outlet, you'll get it from 0% to 80% in just 40 minutes and to a full charge in 56 minutes. Also: The best portable power stations you can buy Show more Current price: $600 Original price: $900 Warmer times are on the way, and a smart cooler may be just the upgrade you need. Expert Maria Diaz likes Anker's EverFrost cooler for keeping snacks and drinks crisp, and this model is great for camping, fishing, road trips, and more. Also: The smart cooler that stopped me from toting ice again Show more Current price: $66 Original price: $79 This smart sprinkler allows you to tailor your watering routine with five frequency options—every day, odd days, even days, interval (every 2-30 days), and custom (every Monday, etc) —to perfectly suit your gardening needs. The watering schedule can also be set based on local weather data, including weather, soil moisture, and temperature, via the app. Show more Current price: $428 Regular price: $799 A mid-range battery backup generator with a peak output of 3,000W and a running output of 2,000W for keeping devices charged and medical equipment running during a power outage. It can be charged via wall outlet or with available solar panels for true off-grid energy. Show more When is Amazon's Spring Sale? Amazon's Big Spring Sale 2026 will run from March 25-31, 2026. When does the Amazon Spring Sale end? The last day of Amazon's Big Spring Sale is Tuesday, March 31, at 11:59 p.m. PDT. The sale started on March 25 at 12:01 a.m. PDT. How did we choose these Amazon Spring Sale deals? Here at ZDNET, we focus only on smartphone deals we think are truly worth paying for. These are products we would actually want for ourselves, our friends, and family. Our experts typically look for deals of 20% or more, or for products that rarely go on sale. However, if there are exceptions to the rule, we believe the phone in question is a top-tier device. We take customer feedback into account, analyzing user reviews to see what people really liked about their purchase. The goal here is to provide reliable guidance so you can shop smarter and avoid wasting money on smartphones that are lackluster and just not worth buying. What are the top deals during Amazon's Spring Sale? This year, Amazon has a slated category of focus for each day of the Big Spring Sale. This is when you can expect to see the most offers on these particular categories, but many deals will likely run the entirety of the event. They are: March 25: Big Spring Deals March 26: Easter Essentials March 27: Home Refresh March 28: Spring Beauty March 29: Spring Cleaning March 30: Spring Fashion March 31: Travel Must-Haves What are the best Amazon Spring Sale deals? ZDNET's staff of reviewers has been digging through the deals at Amazon and also competitors like Walmart and Costco to help you find the best prices across categories: More questions? Read our Big Spring Sale shopping guide to discover everything you need to know about Amazon's seasonal spring sale.