The MacBook Neo has made many headlines this week, and it's no surprise. At just £600, Apple 's new budget laptop has the potential to seriously disrupt the market. At such a low price, I wasn't expecting any deals for a while on this model, but Amazon has already broken ranks by offering the device for just £569 (was £599) in the Blush and Indigo colourways. While £30 isn't a huge discount in isolation, it's rare to see Amazon (or any other retailer) offer a deal on a trending Apple product like this so soon. The Neo was just released a few days ago, in fact. It's hard to say whether this particular price cut is part of the wider Amazon Spring Deal Days sale that's happening right now, or whether this is some kind of 'launch deal', but it's definitely worth considering. Amazon's sale ends on Monday night, too, so it could be worth picking this one up sooner rather than later. First-ever discount on the MacBook Neo A great choice for most people right now (Image credit: Future) We've just published our MacBook Neo review , which details why this new model is a fantastic choice for those on a budget. In short, Apple has brought many of the things that we love about the higher-end MacBook Air models down to a much more compelling price cut. For one, we were genuinely surprised at how good the performance from the Apple A19 chipset in the Neo is for most everyday tasks. For those who don't already know, it's the same processor used in recent iPhones, so there was a question mark over whether it would handle the usual laptop-based tasks. With only 8GB of RAM, the Neo won't blow you away, but it's fantastic for browsing, emails, writing, and even various editing tasks. Despite being a cheaper model, the Neo doesn't feel cheap at all, either. It's still constructed from the same sturdy aluminium as many of the higher-end models, and the display is also quite good. It has thicker bezels than some, but it's vibrant and has plenty of resolution. Overall, this machine is a great buy. More of today's highlights in the Amazon Spring sale