Google announced a new version of its Android Automotive open-source operating system for software-defined vehicles. Whereas previously Android Automotive operated exclusively in the car’s infotainment system, Google is now expanding its “open infrastructure” to the non-safety parts of the car’s internal computer system. As cars have swiftly become “computers on wheels,” there is still a lot of fragmentation in the industry, with many car manufacturers using different, mismatched software modules from dozens of different suppliers. Google wants to solve this fragmentation problem by — what else? — becoming the de facto software provider for the industry. But the company says this isn’t just an effort to corner the market; it also wants to provide a better experience for drivers. With its new Android Automotive OS for Software-Defined Vehicles, the in-car experience will feel “much more cohesive and the latest features will reach your driveway faster,” Matt Crowley, Android Automotive’s group product manager, writes in a blog post. “From a truly integrated voice experience to proactive maintenance reminders, your car will become a true extension of your digital life,” Crowley adds. “From a truly integrated voice experience to proactive maintenance reminders, your car will become a true extension of your digital life.” — Matt Crowley, Android Automotive’s group product manager With its new software, Google is promising faster over-the-air software updates, better voice assistants, and more proactive vehicle maintenance alerts. Non-driving functions like climate control, lighting, and seating adjustment would fall under Android’s control. And the system would move beyond basic infotainment to create a unified ecosystem for features like remote cabin conditioning, digital key management, and personalized driver profiles. For automakers, the new system promises less expensive software development costs and an opportunity to focus on what matters most to them: branding. By providing the “foundational code and a common language for their software,” Google says automakers will be free to design cool experiences for their customers. Google says its already working with companies like Renault Group and Qualcomm to bring its new software-defined vehicle version of Android Automotive to more cars. A variety of automakers already use regular Android Automotive, like Volvo, Polestar, General Motors, Nissan, and Honda. Google is competing with Apple to persuade more automakers to hand over control of their software development efforts. Most automakers allow their customers to use phone-mirroring services like Apple CarPlay and Android Auto. But now both companies are going a step further. Last year, Apple finally rolled out its CarPlay Ultra feature that takes over more core functions like HVAC and radio controls. The feature is available on select Aston Martin vehicles, and is soon coming to Porsche.