There are plenty of mini PC deals to be had in this year's Amazon Big Spring Sale. And luckily, my team and I have reviewed plenty of them. GMKtec's sales are centered around more affordable office and business use, and several of them have caught my eye. Now, our best budget mini PC, the GMKtec G10 is $300 (was $340) at Amazon . But I strongly recommend opting for the GMKtec M6 Ultra that's now $550 (was $700) if you want a stronger machine from the same stable. During testing, we said, "the M6 Ultra not only performs well for office tasks but can also take that extra step up to multimedia creation, media playback, and a touch of gaming." Basically, if you're looking for the best GMKtec mini PC deal in Amazon's Spring Sale, swerve the cheaper G10 and opt for the M6 Ultra. It's much more versatile. Alternatively, check out my round up of the 6 Geekom mini PC deals I recommend in the Amazon Big Spring Sale based on our benchmark tests . For more tech deals, visit our Amazon Big Spring Sale live hub . • View the full Amazon Big Spring Sale Today's best GMKtec mini PC deal For general day-to-day office and work tasks, the G10 is a stellar little machine. And it allows plenty of scope for upgrading the memory and storage, as Mark noted in his comprehensive review . The issue is, it won't appeal to those who want to push boundaries and squeeze every drop of performance out of the machine. The older CPU doesn't lend itself to that at all - and I'd recommend the M6 Ultra if you want a GMKtec mini PC that can handle those sort of projects. True, it's more expensive, and we did feel the housing was a little average. But in the performance stakes, our review found plenty to like about this machine. On the business side, "when running Word, Excel, browsing the internet, and watching media, this small PC runs exceptionally smoothly," offering fast boot-up times into Windows 11 Pro. For content creation, it's worth quoting our review in full - it'll give you a sound idea of what to expect here. "After taking the photographs for this review, I selected the images shot on a Sony A7 Mark IV through Adobe Bridge, launched into Camera Raw, and then into Photoshop to make a few additional tweaks. Adobe Photoshop was more than capable of handling the raw files from the camera, and adding a few basic layers proved that this machine has more than enough processing power to be used for mid-range photo editing... I was impressed as I loaded up Adobe Premiere Pro and imported 4K video. Basic edits and adjustments were more than possible, and as I scrubbed through the timelines, the thumbnail generation seemed smooth and fast. When it came to exporting and encoding, there was quite a wait, but the fact that it was still able to handle these projects was good. Likewise, DaVinci Resolve was able to do some colour grading for short clips and once again ploughed through video edits without too many issues." Gaming performance was... ok. We tried the usual array of AAA titles - Indiana Jones and the Great Circle , Hogwarts Legacy , Tekken 8 , and DiRT Rally - and while it mostly delivered smooth gameplay playback on our 4K 60Hz monitor, frame rates weren't outstanding. All very playable, but occasionally slow. Expect to turn your settings down here. Still, as we said at the time, "when it comes to pure performance for office and general use, it strikes an excellent balance, with a good combination of processor and GPU, fast RAM, and plenty of storage that will meet the demands of most people using it for general use." More GMKtec mini PC deals More of today's best Amazon Big Spring Sale deals