The 2026 World Cup will surely be Robert Lewandowski's last should Poland get there, but with Albania and then either Sweden or Ukraine standing in their way, the Barcelona superstar won't be taking anything for granted. Albania have never qualified for a World Cup as an independent nation, but they're getting closer. They've reached two of the past three editions of the Euros, and under the stewardship of Sylvinho they've developed into underdogs with bite. He steered them to second place in Group K, above Serbia and behind only England. Although they don't score many – only Rey Manaj, Kristjan Asllani and Myrto Uzuni found the net in qualifying – they're brilliant at defending a lead. The Red and Blacks have won three straight away games without conceding. Their main goal threat Manaj, however, will miss Thursday's clash in Warsaw with a thigh injury. Mirlind Daku is also sidelined. Likewise, Jan Urban has had an invigorating effect on Poland, who are yet to lose under their new coach. Despite holding the Netherlands to home and away draws, a costly defeat by Finland earlier on in the campaign consigned the Eagles to the playoffs. There's no more margin for error. Read on for our guide on where to watch Poland vs Albania live streams online, on TV and potentially for free wherever you are. Can I watch Poland vs Albania for free? Poland vs Albania is free-to-air on TVP Sport in Poland and L'Equipe Live Foot in France. Traveling abroad right now? You can use a VPN to watch the World Cup 2026 playoff qualifier for free as if you were right at home. NordVPN is our top pick of the options. How to watch Poland vs Albania using a VPN A VPN is handy piece of software that can make your device appear as if it's back in your home country, so you can unlock your usual service. The best VPN right now? We recommend NordVPN – it does everything and comes with a 77% discount, an extra four months for free and an Amazon Gift Card thrown in on some plans. How to watch Poland vs Albania live streams in the US In the US, Poland vs Albania is being shown on both FS2 and ViX. If you don't have FS2 on cable, it's available through Sling . You'll need the $11/month Sports Extra addon on top of a Sling Blue plan, which starts at $45.99/month – but you'll get 50% off your first month. Alternatively, you can live stream Poland vs Albania via Fox One , which costs $19.99/month after a 7-day FREE trial . You'll need a Premium subscription to tune in on ViX , starting at $5.99/month. Visiting the US from Poland? Use NordVPN to watch TVP Sport's free Poland vs Albania coverage. How to watch Poland vs Albania live streams in the UK (Image credit: Future) In the UK, Poland vs Albania is being shown on Prime Video , for a one-off PPV fee of £2.49. Outside the UK right now? Use NordVPN to access your home coverage of the game. How to watch Poland vs Albania live streams in Canada (Image credit: Other) DAZN is showing the Poland vs Albania game in Canada. Plans starts at CA24.99 per month, with NFL, Champions League, Europa League and EFL action all included. A VPN will help you tune in if you're a Canadian traveling abroad. NordVPN is our recommended provider, and you can find out why with our in-depth NordVPN review . How to watch Poland vs Albania live streams in Australia Poland vs Albania is being shown on Stan Sport in Australia. It costs $20 a month on top of a regular Stan subscription, which itself starts at $12 a month. Away from Australia right now? Use a VPN to watch Stan Sport from abroad . Can I watch Poland vs Albania on my mobile? Of course, most broadcasters have streaming services that you can access through mobile apps or via your phone's browser. You can also stay up-to-date with UEFA World Cup qualifying on the official social media channels on YouTube ( @UEFA ) and Instagram ( @UEFA_official ). We test and review VPN services in the context of legal recreational uses. For example: 1. Accessing a service from another country (subject to the terms and conditions of that service). 2. Protecting your online security and strengthening your online privacy when abroad. We do not support or condone the illegal or malicious use of VPN services. Consuming pirated content that is paid-for is neither endorsed nor approved by Future Publishing.