Everyday Intelligence, refined Meet the Galaxy S26 Series, here to supercharge your everyday. They’ve all got stunning screens for ultra-vivid viewing, with colours and details popping. Galaxy S26 Ultra now has new Privacy Display¹ – a world’s first on mobile - keeping your screen for your eyes only. The series comes with Galaxy AI² top to toe, for all your everyday needs. Transform quick snaps into studio-level edits with Photo Assist³ and create custom wallpapers, stickers, and more with Creative Studio⁴. Light up concert nights with new Nightography⁵ – a wider aperture lets in more light for crisper, brighter snaps and videos⁶ – all enhanced by Galaxy’s most powerful custom processor. And now there’s the all–new Now Nudge⁷, which gives context-aware suggestions related to you. Spot something you like? Find it instantly with Circle to Search⁸ without leaving your app. Plus, for quick questions, Google Gemini⁹ or Perplexity¹⁰ is a touch of a button away. Built for power, the Galaxy S26 Series is ready to perform. ¹ Requires manual activation in settings to function. Privacy Display feature is not AI-powered. ² Samsung account login is required for certain AI features. ³ Requires network connection and Samsung account login. A visible watermark is overlaid on the saved image to indicate it was generated by Galaxy AI. Accuracy of output not guaranteed. ⁴ Requires network connection and Samsung account login. Accuracy of output not guaranteed. ⁵ Results may vary depending on light condition, subject and/or shooting conditions. ⁶ Compared to Galaxy S25 Series. ⁷ Samsung account login required. Supported apps only. Accuracy of results is not guaranteed. ⁸ Compatible with select languages only. Google Account login and network connection required. If Gemini UI or Google apps are in view: Google and Gemini/YouTube/Maps etc are trademarks of Google LLC. Works on compatible apps and surfaces. Results may vary depending on visual matches. Check responses for accuracy. ⁹ Compatible with select languages only. Google Account login and network connection required. If Gemini UI or Google apps are in view: Google and Gemini/YouTube/Maps etc are trademarks of Google LLC. Check responses. Setup required. Compatibility and availability vary. 18+. ¹⁰ Pre-installed on Galaxy S26 Series devices. Requires network connection and a Perplexity account. To initiate Perplexity from the side button, users must assign it to the side button in device settings.