The company will use the new funding to refine its existing technology, introduce Know Your Agent frameworks and deploy new product updates, it said in a Tuesday (March 24) press release . Worth’s artificial intelligence-powered platform brings together credit assessments, know your business (KYB), know your customer (KYC), banking and fraud protection, according to the release. The company’s agentic AI uses verified identity data, network intelligence, risk signals, machine learning models and customizable decision workflows to generate decisions. All decisions are auditable and traceable to support compliance and regulatory requirements, the release said. The capabilities of Worth’s platform allow financial institutions to make faster, more accurate credit decisions; reduce operational inefficiencies; accelerate time-to-revenue; and unlock greater access to capital for SMBs, per the release. We’d love to be your preferred source for news . Please add us to your preferred sources list so our news, data and interviews show up in your feed. Thanks! “With our agentic AI-powered Decision Intelligence, we’re enabling automated, auditable, real-time decisions that give financial institutions confidence in every outcome,” Worth CEO and Co-Founder Sal Rehmetullah said in the release. “This investment allows us to accelerate that vision and bring to market what we believe is the future: a one-click, global onboarding experience through Worth Wallet, enabling financial institutions to instantly onboard businesses with speed, accuracy and trust.” Advertisement: Scroll to Continue Jim Douglass , partner at Fulcrum Equity Partners , which led the funding round, said in the release that Worth’s founders identified “a critical gap in financial services that no one else was addressing.” Margaret Lim , managing director at Amex Ventures , which participated in the round, said in the release: “We believe Worth’s AI-powered automation solutions could enable more seamless experiences for customers.” Worth’s Series A came a year after the company’s March 2025 announcements that it raised $25 million in new funding to enhance its platform and support the addition of larger financial institutions to its roster of clients. The company said in September that it expanded into the healthcare sector by partnering with PatientFi , a provider of patient-friendly financing solutions. In October, Worth said that Priority adopted Worth’s platform to streamline the merchant onboarding process.