Apple is bringing additional firepower to its US manufacturing effort, partnering with four companies that will help make components, including sensors and integrated circuits, for products it sells worldwide. The company said Thursday that it's inked agreements with Bosch, Cirrus Logic, TDK and Qnity Electronics to make materials and components in the US as part of a $600 billion commitment announced last year . As part of that effort, Apple plans to add jobs and new factory production across 10 states over the next four years. This part of its American Manufacturing Program would represent about $400 million in spending through 2030, Apple said. The program is part of the tech giant's bending to widespread government efforts to favor domestic companies. The Trump administration has levied heavy tariffs and banned some products from other countries, such as routers and drones , which it labeled security risks. In response to the added costs of tariffs and some of that political pressure, Apple has shifted some of its manufacturing away from China and has agreed to make more -- but certainly not all -- of its products in the US. Some products, like the company's Mac Mini , are slated to be assembled in Houston, Texas, later this year. Still, it's nearly impossible to manufacture a product like an iPhone completely in the US due to high labor and production costs, as well as a lack of an integrated supply chain. Consider the case of the not-yet-launched Trump-branded phone , which dropped the "made in the US" claim on Trump Mobile shortly after its announcement. In its announcement, Apple said TDK will make sensors for Apple's products while Bosch will work with Apple and TSMC on integrated circuits in the state of Washington. Cirrus Logic will partner with Apple and GlobalFoundries to develop semiconductor technologies in New York. Qnity will work with HD MicroSystems on materials for semiconductors and other electronics. A spokesperson for Bosch said the company was grateful for the opportunity to collaborate with Apple and TSMC and that integrated circuits for its new sensing hardware would be manufactured in Camas, Washington. And a spokesperson for Cirrus Logic said that its collaboration with Apple, its largest customer, would "continue to drive content expansion in new product areas." Apple said it's hosting a spring forum for its Apple Manufacturing Academy in Detroit from April 30 to May 1 to provide training for small- and medium-size manufacturers.