Apple began rolling out age verification requirements for UK users as part of a software update Wednesday, as the government increases pressure on tech giants to better protect children online. UK iPhone and iPad users will now have to confirm their age using an official ID, a credit card or existing Apple account -- or face restrictions on certain content and features. "Adults will have to confirm that they're 18 or older to use certain services or features, or take certain actions on their account," Apple said in a post on its website. Those who do not verify their age will be subject to the same web content filters and communication safety tools applied to children's accounts. These include features that detect nudity in photos and video calls, as well as broader online content restrictions. In the UK, children under 13 are unable to create an Apple account without a guardian. Britain's media regulator Ofcom welcomed the move. "Apple's decision that the UK will be one of the first countries in the world to receive new child safety protections on devices is a real win for children and families," Ofcom said in a statement. Under Britain's Online Safety Act , which entered force in July, platforms hosting potentially harmful content are required to implement strict age verification through tools such as facial imagery or credit card checks. While the regulation does not require app stores to implement age checks, the UK government -- along with others globally -- is pushing for stronger safeguards for children online. Prime Minister Keir Starmer's Labour government has launched a consultation on a social media ban for under-16s. As part of that process, hundreds of British teenagers will trial social media bans and time limits on apps. Australia in December became the first nation to prohibit people under the age of 16 from using immensely popular and profitable social media platforms. Several other countries are considering similar bans, including France where lawmakers in January passed a bill that would prohibit use by under-15s, which still needs final approval. Published On Mar 26, 2026 at 07:53 AM IST Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals. Subscribe to Newsletter to get latest insights & analysis in your inbox. All about ETTelecom industry right on your smartphone!