The programme is aimed at supporting startups at the MVP or prototype stage, helping them build, test and scale solutions through industry engagement. NSRCEL , the startup hub at the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Bangalore, in partnership with Maruti Suzuki India, has launched the sixth cohort of its incubation programme for mobility startups , the organisations said on Thursday. The cohort brings together promising startups working at the intersection of mobility, artificial intelligence (AI), electric vehicles (EVs), manufacturing technologies, and circular economy innovation. The programme is aimed at supporting startups at the MVP or prototype stage, helping them build, test and scale solutions through industry engagement. It combines NSRCEL’s incubation capabilities with Maruti Suzuki’s industry expertise to support solutions targeting real-world mobility challenges, while contributing to the growth of India’s startup ecosystem. The sixth cohort highlights a widening scope of innovation in the sector, with startups working across green manufacturing, mobility infrastructure, vehicle technologies, digital transformation, Industry 5.0 and clean technology. Selected startups will receive mentorship, industry exposure and opportunities to collaborate with Maruti Suzuki teams to pilot and validate their solutions. The initiative has previously supported startups across to work closely with the automotive ecosystem, including ValetEZ, Eshipz, Woloo, Defect Scanner, Innovate Labs and True Assist. “Through our partnership with Maruti Suzuki, founders gain access to deep industry insights, opportunities to validate their technologies in real-world environments, and pathways to accelerate their journey to scale,” said Anand Sri Ganesh, CEO of NSRCEL. Since its inception in 2020, the programme has supported over 140 startups. It has also facilitated 19 paid proof-of-concept projects, enabling startups to test their solutions in real-world industry settings. Startups that have gone through the programme have collectively raised over ₹1,000 crore in funding and generated more than 2,600 jobs, reflecting growing investor interest and expansion in the sector. Published On Mar 26, 2026 at 01:38 PM IST Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals. Subscribe to Newsletter to get latest insights & analysis in your inbox. All about ETAuto industry right on your smartphone!