NEW DELHI: Swedish telecom gear maker Ericsson s ai d artificial intelligence (AI) deployment in the radio interface can deliver spectral efficiency gain of as much as 20%. “The number one thing that we have done so far is using an AI algorithm to run a link adaptation on the radio interface, it immediately improved the cell edge bitrate, or the spectral efficiency , by 20%,” said Ng Thiaw Seng, head of network solutions (strategic network evolution), market area South East Asia, Oceania & India, Ericsson . Seng spoke at the recently concluded ninth edition of the ETTelecom 5G Congress 2026 . “By having the efficiency in the network of up to 20% means, I am (telecom operator) avoiding overbuilding the network to support the AI applications that are very uplink heavy,” he added. The maker of 4G and 5G mobile network kits said that AI can also deliver a 20% uplift in user experience and enhance mobility by remediating anomalies in real-time. The bottleneck comes down to the radio access network (RAN), where the spectrum is limited, according to the top executive. “To build a network for AI, we use the AI to improve the user experience.” The telecom industry has invested multi-billion-dollar into building out mobile networks and underlying infrastructure over which artificial intelligence tools run, driving text and video generation, chatbots, and more. Vendors and operators, however, are now mulling over integrating graphics processing units (GPUs) – the key hardware that provides computing power for AI – into radio networks. “If it has something to do with the air interface that requires a microsecond or millisecond type of response, that means the processing has to be done on the radio. Then it will not blow up the whole investment itself,” Seng said, adding that for general purposes, the processing can happen in the larger cloud facilities that are equipped with leading hardware and network management capabilities. Ericsson, he said, is focused on improving consumer-centric use cases with AI and building high-performing programmable networks that will tailor different user experiences for different use cases, to help the telcos enhance experience and lower the total cost of ownership (TCO) for networks. “We are putting efforts and research into making sure that AI is fundamental in the future 6G network,” he said. Telco revenue trends Ericsson said that operators are building more mid-band capacity and expanding standalone (SA)-architecture-driven network slicing to scale new uses. Seng cited the 5G fixed wireless access (FWA) as one such application, which has more than 12 million subscribers today. “We need to scale with more AI applications, with augmented reality (AR), and expand to new sectors, for example, private network, mission-critical, and dynamically segmented businesses.” While an increasing number of use cases are expected to make networks complex, AI will play a role in optimising the costs, Seng concluded. Published On Mar 26, 2026 at 05:25 PM IST Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals. Subscribe to Newsletter to get latest insights & analysis in your inbox. All about ETTelecom industry right on your smartphone!