Meta plans to launch two new Ray-Ban smart glasses models specifically aimed at prescription wearers as soon as next week, Bloomberg reports. The new models will reportedly come in rectangular and rounded styles, and are expected to be sold mainly via "traditional prescription eyewear channels." Though there was no mention made of any specific launch partners or what the new specs could actually cost when they hit the market. The patents were first reported by tech blogger Janko Roettgers , under the code names “RayBan Meta Scriber” and “RayBan Meta Blazer.” Users are already able to add prescription lenses, either from Ray-Ban itself or from third-party suppliers, to their Meta Ray-Bans. Looking at the patents, it’s not entirely clear how the new model will differ from traditional Meta Ray-Bans, but 9to5Google speculates new specs could have differences in terms of their battery life, their frame thickness or their weight. The latest move shouldn’t come as that much of a surprise, Meta was already eyeing the existing market of billions of people with imperfect eyesight. Bloomberg pointed to an earnings call from this January where Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg said “it’s hard to imagine a world in several years where most glasses that people wear aren’t AI glasses.” "Billions of people wear glasses or contacts for vision correction," Zuckerberg told investors. "I think that we're at a moment similar to when smartphones arrived, and it was clearly only a matter of time until all those flip phones became smartphones." Recommended by Our Editors The news of the new glasses comes amid strong demand for Meta's eyewear. After launching its Ray-Ban Meta Display glasses in late 2025 , the company has reportedly considered doubling production to meet demand, even as it continues layoffs at its Reality Labs division. Get Our Best Stories! Your Daily Dose of Our Top Tech News Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! About Our Expert Experience I’m a reporter covering weekend news. Before joining PCMag in 2024, I picked up bylines in BBC News, The Guardian, The Times of London, The Daily Beast, Vice, Slate, Fast Company, The Evening Standard, The i, TechRadar, and Decrypt Media. I’ve been a PC gamer since you had to install games from multiple CD-ROMs by hand. As a reporter, I’m passionate about the intersection of tech and human lives. I’ve covered everything from crypto scandals to the art world, as well as conspiracy theories, UK politics, and Russia and foreign affairs. Read Full Bio