Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Harsh Sanghavi during the inauguration of Wipro’s new office at GIFT City, in Gandhinagar. Indian executive and former CEO of Kotak Mahindra Bank Uday Kotak and others are also seen. (Handout via PTI Photo)(PTI03_19_2026_000313B)
																															| Photo Credit:
											- Wipro Limited on Thursday launched a new hub at Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT City) with an initial capacity of 150 seats --- scalable to 500 --- as it looks to accelerate AI-led transformation in the global banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI) sector. The new centre is designed to strengthen Wipro’s capabilities in delivering consulting-led, AI-first solutions to global BFSI clients. Aligned with its Wipro Intelligence platform suite, the hub will focus on areas such as digital banking, capital markets, regulatory technology, risk and compliance and core platform modernisation. The facility is also expected to enhance co-innovation with clients and support the deployment of responsible AI across critical financial workflows, the company stated in a regulatory filing. Deputy Chief Minister of Gujarat Harsh Sanghavi who formally launched the hub said the move reflects the State’s growing prominence as a global hub for financial and technology services. He noted that GIFT City continues to attract leading enterprises with its infrastructure, policy support and talent ecosystem. Sanjeev Jain, Chief Operating Officer of Wipro, described the expansion as a strategic investment to scale the impact of its AI-powered offerings for the BFSI sector. “Wipro’s presence at GIFT City is a strategic investment to scale the impact of Wipro Intelligence for the global BFSI industry. By combining our consulting‑led, AI‑powered transformation and delivery capabilities with deep domain expertise and a strong innovation culture within a high‑quality talent ecosystem, we are enabling deeper client engagement and long‑term value creation. This expansion also reinforces our commitment to collaborate with the Government of Gujarat as we build future‑ready capabilities that support sustainable growth,” Jain stated. The centre will also play a key role in talent development, leveraging Gujarat’s growing pool of skilled graduates. Published on  March 19, 2026