Gold prices rose on ​Thursday after briefly touching a more than one-month ⁠low, as a softer dollar offered support, but gains were capped by a hawkish Federal Reserve, which has limited hopes for near-term rate cuts. Spot ‌gold added 0.8% to $4,856.82 per ounce as of 0115 GMT, after falling to its lowest since February ‌6 earlier in the day. Prices fell 3.7 per cent on ‌Wednesday. US ⁠gold futures for April delivery shed 0.8 per cent to $4,858.60. The ⁠dollar eased, making greenback-priced bullion cheaper for holders of other currencies. “The dollar’s momentum has paused today, which has effectively allowed gold to start recouping ground, ​albeit at a modest pace,” said ‌Tim Waterer, KCM Trade chief market analyst. “Expectations for incoming U.S. rate cuts have been a cornerstone of gold’s ascent, but spiking oil prices have dampened hopes for monetary easing, ‌which has somewhat pulled the rug out from under ​the gold price.” Oil climbed above $110 a barrel after Iran attacked several energy facilities across the Middle East ⁠following a strike on its South Pars gas field, adding fresh inflation concerns. The closure of the Strait of Hormuz kept ‌crude elevated, raising transport and manufacturing costs. While a rising inflation backdrop typically boosts gold’s appeal as a hedge, high interest rates reduce demand for the non-yielding metal. The U.S. Federal Reserve and Bank of Canada both struck hawkish tones on Wednesday as surging energy prices arising from the Iran conflict clouded the ‌inflation outlook. Both central banks held rates steady, but warned of risks that rising ​energy costs could fan a more persistent inflation spike. Meanwhile, U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration is considering deploying thousands ⁠of U.S. troops to reinforce operations in the Middle East. Spot gold ⁠has fallen more than 9 per cent since the U.S.-Israeli strike on Iran on February 28, pressured by a ‌stronger dollar, which has emerged as one of the clearest “safe-haven” winners. Spot silver gained 1.5 per cent to $76.52 per ounce. Spot platinum rose ​0.6 per cent to $2,035.25 and palladium added 1.2 per cent to $1,492.25. Published on  March 19, 2026