Ever find OpenAI’s most useful tools are spread across multiple, stand-alone services? The ChatGPT-maker plans to combine its most popular features into a new desktop “superapp” to give users a simpler experience and more ways to discover additional functionality. According to a report from The Wall Street Journal , OpenAI confirmed plans to combine many of its tools into a single service on desktop. It’s expected to bring together ChatGPT , its Codex coding tools, and its Atlas web browser . There's no mention of other OpenAI tools joining those three services, so it's unclear whether additional features, such as Sora video generation, will be added. Previous rumors suggest OpenAI already plans to bring AI-generated videos into ChatGPT in the near future. OpenAI’s CEO of applications, Fidji Simo, is overseeing the changes. Simo said on X, “Companies go through phases of exploration and phases of refocus; both are critical. But when new bets start to work, like we're seeing now with Codex, it's very important to double down on them and avoid distractions. Really glad we're seizing this moment.” A spokesperson for OpenAI confirmed that its ChatGPT mobile app will remain unchanged. What remains unclear is whether OpenAI will continue to launch other mobile tools, such as its planned expansion into a mobile Atlas browser . It’s also unclear what the new, overarching desktop service will be called, but it may make sense for OpenAI to use its ChatGPT name as the hub for all its tools, considering the brand recognition. OpenAI has spent the last few years expanding its tools into standalone products. Simo reportedly told employees on Thursday, “That fragmentation has been slowing us down and making it harder to hit the quality bar we want.” It's thought that bringing the desktop tools together may help OpenAI make better use of its resources. Recommended by Our Editors This news comes days after Simo reportedly told OpenAI employees it wanted to refocus on business and productivity tools. Simo told employees the brand needed to take fewer “side quests,” a move seen as a response to growing competition from rivals like Anthropic and Google’s Gemini. Earlier this month, OpenAI confirmed it would be delaying the rollout of its adult mode , built to let users have erotic conversations with AI. That may be one of the "side quests" Simo was referring to. Disclosure: Ziff Davis, PCMag's parent company, filed a lawsuit against OpenAI in April 2025, alleging it infringed Ziff Davis copyrights in training and operating its AI systems. Get Our Best Stories! Your Daily Dose of Our Top Tech News Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! About Our Expert Experience I’ve been a journalist for over a decade after getting my start in tech reporting back in 2013.  I joined PCMag in 2025, where I cover the latest developments across the tech sphere, writing about the gadgets and services you use every day. Be sure to send me any tips you think PCMag would be interested in. Read Full Bio