All the leading PC brands will be participating in Amazon's Big Spring Sale on March 25, but many of them are leaping into the fray early with discounts. Amazon sells a variety of Lenovo desktops, laptops, and tablets, many of which we've extensively tested and reviewed. These early discounts are pretty surprising, with price drops as deep as 40% before the sale even kicks off. More Early Amazon Big Spring Sale Deals *Deals are selected by our commerce team Lenovo IdeaPad Slim Laptop Deal Lenovo IdeaPad Slim Laptop 15.6-inch FHD screen, Intel i5-1334U CPU, 24GB RAM, 1TB storage $699.99 at Amazon $999.00 Save $299.01 Get Deal Lenovo laptops are consistently solid performers, and a $300 price cut on this IdeaPad is a great deal. We reviewed a less impressive loadout, noting that it packed a solid amount of functionality into a lightweight package with a nice big keyboard and full number pad (a hallmark of Lenovo portables). We were also impressed by the RAM and storage you got for the price, and this build ups the system memory to 24GB, and also ships with a USB hub for additional connectivity. The all-plastic build isn't our favorite choice of materials, but it doesn't feel cheap and looks decent. More Laptop Deals *Deals are selected by our commerce team Lenovo ThinkCentre Neo 50q Tiny Deals Lenovo ThinkCentre Neo 50q Tiny Intel i5-13420H CPU, 16GB RAM, 512GB storage $597.98 at Amazon $999.00 Save $401.02 Get Deal Businesses have been choosing Lenovo for their office tech buildouts for decades, as their ThinkCentre desktops are compact and reliable units that deliver solid performance on a budget. Amazon has a massive 40% price cut on the ThinkCentre New 50q Tiny, which we reviewed positively . It has sturdy construction, quiet running, and the 13th generation Intel i5 processor benchmarked well. Wi-Fi 6 support and plenty of ports on both the front and back of the chassis give you lots of connectivity options, and it supports up to 3 simultaneous displays up to 4K resolution. More Desktop Deals *Deals are selected by our commerce team Lenovo Legion Tab Gen 3 Deal Lenovo Legion Tab Gen 3 8.8-inch screen, Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 CPU, 12GB RAM, 256GB storage $439.12 at Amazon $549.00 Save $109.88 Get Deal Gaming on the go isn't reserved for just laptops anymore, and if you're in the market for a tablet that pushes the performance envelope, Lenovo's Legion Tab is a great pick. We reviewed this model and gave it an "Excellent" rating, with writer Iyaz Akhtar commenting that it delivered "top-tier performance in an easy-to-carry device," with long battery life to boot. With Gorilla Glass 5 for the screen and an aluminum alloy chassis, it feels luxurious and durable, and the ARM-based processor dominated our resource-heavy gaming benchmark tests. The 6,550mAh battery charges through either of the tablet's USB-C ports and lasted 9 hours and 45 minutes in our testing, with charging from zero to 100% in 60 minutes. Recommended by Our Editors More Tablet Deals *Deals are selected by our commerce team We'll be adding more Lenovo deals throughout the week, but while you wait for March 25 to come, check out more of our early Amazon Spring Sale coverage . Get Our Best Stories! Your Daily Dose of Our Top Tech News Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! About Our Expert K. Thor Jensen Contributing Writer Experience K. Thor Jensen is a writer and cartoonist living in the Pacific Northwest. He has contributed to dozens of prestigious outlets, including PCMag, Tested, Clickhole, and Newsweek. His second graphic novel, Cloud Stories , was released in 2017. Read Full Bio