As someone who has preferred Apple computers for a long time but could seldom afford a Mac for personal use, I've grown used to working with a basic iPad and a keyboard cover to get as close to that experience as possible. I've even come to enjoy it. But the MacBook Neo just upended my Apple cart. You see, trying to outmaneuver potential Apple price hikes amid the memory crisis , I just bought the latest iPad to upgrade the model I had been using for several years as my personal computer. (That model itself replaced an even older one.) For a long time, the iPad's processor has delivered more than enough power for web browsing, bill paying, document drafting, and even casual gaming, and Apple's tablets are a cinch to operate. I've purchased a cheaper iPad and a keyboard cover instead of a MacBook three times now over the past 13 or so years. Paired with a decent keyboard cover, the iPad has come in clutch for all of those needs. I have even worked on paid writing commissions using an iPad/keyboard cover combo. While it has worked well, I have only done all that because Apple’s laptops were just too expensive for me to afford. The MacBook Neo erases this concern. This little, colorful MacBook Air-alike essentially makes using an iPad in place of a brand-new budget MacBook obsolete, because that's exactly what it is. The MacBook Neo is here to set you free from using an iPad like it's a MacBook Junior, as I have for years. For a proper affordable Mac laptop experience, ignore all of that iPad stuff and just go Neo next time. I sure wish I did this year. (Credit: Jeffrey Hazelwood/PCMag; Apple) Price: Different Products, Same Overall Cost On its face, this battle is easily won by the iPad, right? The laptop costs $599, and the tablet costs $349—case closed. Not so fast. If you want the iPad to work like a laptop, it will need one of those fancy keyboard covers. The one that Apple sells for the basic iPad costs an astronomical $249. That’s more than half the cost of the device alone, and already $600 total, for those keeping score. You can find cheaper alternatives that are still high-quality, like the Logitech Combo Touch Keyboard Case for $139.99, but that still amounts to about $500. Can you see what I’m getting at here? While it notably lacks backlighting, the MacBook Neo already includes a far superior, more stable keyboard than any folio cover can offer. (Credit: Eric Zeman) It's all about whether you’re particularly married to the extra versatility of a tablet that can pinch-hit as a laptop. I don’t find that aspect all that important in how I use my iPad for everyday computing. (As they say, "Other opinions are available," and yours may be different!) But if what you want is something that works well as a laptop first and foremost, the more powerful, more spacious, and more focused MacBook Neo is a simpler, better deal. Winner: MacBook Neo Performance: Tiny Goliath Trounces an Even Tinier David While the iPad will continue to help the average user get by with paying the bills or writing their next breakout sci-fi novel, while maybe even tweaking some family photos, the MacBook Neo’s superior processor does it all better. The latest iPad model has Apple’s older A16 processor inside, whereas the MacBook Neo uses the more advanced A18 Pro chip, previously exclusive to the 2024 iPhone Pro models. (Of course, alongside the Neo, Apple just introduced a new iPad Air with an M4 chip , but that model starts higher, at $599, with no keyboard in sight.) Apart from their comparative age, these chips are also just in different performance classes. Where the A16 comprises a five-core CPU and a four-core GPU, the A18 Pro is a six-core CPU and a five-core GPU—a +1 uptick, in both cases. (Both chips have 16-core Neural Engine AI coprocessors.) I hate to tell you (again, given that I went with an iPad not long before the Neo emerged), but the difference is indeed dramatic. The Neo’s A18 Pro simply runs circles around the A16 chip. In Geekbench, the A18 Pro’s single-core speeds weren't terribly far behind the A16’s multi-core speeds. This means the Neo should generally be faster in every way, for everything from web browsing to spot photo editing. Because it's a bigger device, it's also likely less thermally constrained. As for graphics, the Neo’s processor posted runaway wins in all three of UL's 3DMark tests we can compare these two devices on, two of which notably focus on ray-tracing performance (3DMark's Solar Bay and Solar Bay Extreme). The third test, Wild Life Extreme, measures high-resolution graphics-rendering performance, and it wasn’t close between these two chips on that front. (The iPad lacks the 8GB of minimum memory required to run the Steel Nomad tests we normally put Macs through—more on that in a moment.) Finally, while we can’t measure it directly, it’s important to note that, while the A16 includes a Neural Engine, it’s not capable of running Apple Intelligence. The A18 Pro within the Neo has access to this, which might not seem like a big deal now, but wait a few years. The MacBook Neo is the better performer without question. Winner: MacBook Neo Memory and Storage: Bigger Device, More Room for More Stuff This distinction is rather simple. Being a smaller, less powerful, and less capacious device, the iPad simply pales in comparison to the MacBook Neo on both memory and storage. Its A16 processor has only 6GB of memory attached to it, whereas the Neo’s A18 Pro is paired with 8GB of unified memory. Likewise, the base-model $349 iPad starts with just 128GB of storage, half the Neo’s 256GB starting storage. Both products cap out at 512GB of SSD space, but the iPad costs, relatively, much more to get there, at $649 for the 512GB tablet alone—with no keyboard—versus the 512GB Neo’s $699 total. (Plus, the $699 Neo's upgrade to 512GB also gains you support for Touch ID, which the base $599 model lacks.) (Credit: Joseph Maldonado) These small differences add up when you’re at these razor-thin margins, not to mention when you consider the shoestring budgets a lot of shoppers looking at these kinds of computers are working with. Touch screen and tablet versatility aside, it’s tough to refute the math here: You can spend $600 for a 128GB/6GB 11-inch iPad package, or $600 for a 256GB/8GB 13-inch Neo one. Winner: MacBook Neo Design and Display: Bigger Isn’t Always Better (But It Often Is) Regardless of which device you choose, you can rest assured that both the iPad and MacBook Neo deliver on Apple’s reputation for build quality and premium materials. Both are fully aluminum-clad computers with impressive profiles. The MacBook Neo is essentially a smaller MacBook Air , measuring half an inch thick and weighing 2.7 pounds. On the other hand, the iPad is indisputably more portable, weighing just 1.05 pounds and measuring 0.28 inch thick without a keyboard cover. The presence of one adds, maybe, another few tenths of an inch and about a pound, depending on the model. Get Our Best Stories! Love All Things Apple? Sign up for our Weekly Apple Brief for the latest news, reviews, tips, and more delivered right to your inbox. Sign up for our Weekly Apple Brief for the latest news, reviews, tips, and more delivered right to your inbox. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! (Credit: Joseph Maldonado) While it’s more portable, the iPad is also less robust than a laptop when used in that mode. No keyboard cover today compares with one attached to a traditional laptop, regardless of backlighting or key-switch innovations. The iPad is also generally smaller, meaning less screen real estate for managing larger projects or multiple apps at once, and less typing comfort given any smaller-by-design accomplice keyboard. Speaking of screens, both devices use one of Apple’s Liquid Retina displays, with differing resolutions and pixel densities due to their different sizes. Both panels support up to 500 nits of brightness, per Apple's claims, though the iPad screen supports Apple's True Tone automated color adjustment and the Neo does not. To the MacBook Neo panel’s credit, however, it claims coverage of up to 1 billion sRGB colors, whereas the iPad makes no such claim of its sRGB coverage. (Credit: Eric Zeman) Which of these two designs and displays is better for you, again, depends on your primary use case. If you plan to use the iPad mostly as a laptop and rarely as a tablet, the Neo is the clearly superior device. Winner: MacBook Neo Ports and Connectivity: All It Takes Is Just One More Here’s another easy comparison for you: The iPad has just a single USB Type-C 2.0 port, with data transfer rates of up to 480Mbps. That port also doubles as the charging port. The MacBook Neo has that same port, plus a 10Gbps USB Type-C port behind it. It also has a 3.5mm headphone jack, which the iPad lacks. The A18 Pro’s expanded power and likely overall bandwidth make this additional higher-speed connection possible, which allows the Neo to more easily interact with modern devices and connect to a second display. (You know, proper laptop things.) Recommended by Our Editors (Credit: Joseph Maldonado) Once you want to add something other than a keyboard cover to the iPad’s computing experience, you start to hit walls. The iPad can take you far as a singular computing device, but just not as far as the Neo can. The MacBook Neo even has slightly faster Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 6 versus the iPad’s Wi-Fi 6 and Bluetooth 5.3 radios. Apple’s budget laptop is simply a more connected computer. Winner: MacBook Neo Keyboard and Touchpad: Out of the Box, Neo Has You Covered Oh, look, another layup. This comparison point drills down to the fundamental difference between these two products: One is a tablet first and a laptop second, while the other is a laptop—hands down. The iPad does not come with a keyboard and touchpad in the box. You have to buy one from Apple or another manufacturer, and they’ve come a long way (even including excellent touchpads). Still, they pale in comparison to an honest-to-goodness laptop keyboard. (Credit: Joseph Maldonado) Meanwhile, the MacBook Neo has no such problem. Its keyboard and trackpad are mostly as excellent as those on a MacBook Air, only smaller. One thing to note, however: The Neo's keyboard lacks key backlighting, unlike some iPad keyboard covers. (I use one that does have lighting.) However, that’s a minuscule distinction when looking at the difference in the typing and navigating experiences between these two devices. When an iPad keyboard cover can barely keep up with the average PC laptop keyboard, it already has no hope against the Neo’s keys. Unless backlighting is a total non-negotiable for you, this is all Neo. Winner: MacBook Neo Operating Systems: iPadOS Still Can’t Ape macOS As someone who was using an iPad as a primary computer for several years before Apple’s most recent iPadOS changes, I can attest to just how far the tablet’s operating system has come. Apple has opened up the system’s ability to view and manipulate multiple apps at once, while adopting more of macOS 's approach to navigation via hotkeys and file management. Still, it’s just not macOS. And that’s a shame. For the same price, the MacBook Neo comes with an unadulterated version of Apple’s desktop OS. Despite running on an iPhone chip, the Neo can download apps from any source—not just the App Store—and any app that a Mac is compatible with, so is the Neo. Know that iPhone and iPad apps that don’t support macOS simply won’t appear in its App Store. But many do. (Credit: Eric Zeman) It’s almost like the MacBook Neo gets the best of both worlds here. While the Neo can’t run iOS apps that weren’t coded for macOS support, a lot of those apps have already been, and the Neo has access to so many more apps and tools, thanks to its freedom from the App Store. When you’re trying to use an iOS device like it's a Mac, it just won't ever fully compare with macOS. Winner: MacBook Neo