As far as Meta is concerned, Kaley's mental health struggles stem from her personal life and upbringing and cannot be blamed on her use of Instagram. Adam Mosseri, who heads Instagram, testified in court that even 16 hours of Instagram use did not strike him as an addiction . Mosseri instead referred to someone spending almost an entire day on social media as "problematic". When Mark Zuckerberg testified, after being escorted into the courthouse surrounded by four personal security guards, he repeated many times that his company has always had a policy prohibiting users under the age of 13. Asked to explain multiple internal company documents provided as part of the lawsuit in which Meta executives discussed the millions of children using Instagram and Facebook, and even praised and planned to grow usage among children, Zuckerberg became frustrated. "I don't see why this is so complicated," the billionaire said at one point. "It's been our consistent policy that they're not allowed and we try to remove them. We're not perfect." Lawyers for Kaley pressed Zuckerberg on his claim that Meta's only goal was to create platforms that are useful, something he said naturally leads to more usage. Lanier said addiction also leads people to use something more and Zuckerberg for a moment seemed at a loss. "I don't know what to say to that," he said. "I think that may be true, but I don't know if that applies. I'm trying to build a service here." The focus by Kaley's lawyers on social media addiction may be a tough argument to make, as the condition does not officially exist. When lawyers for Meta spoke to a therapist who had treated Kaley, she admitted to never having diagnosed her patient with an addiction to social media. Meta's arguments mainly focused on Kaley's home life, at times referencing her own posts to Instagram, showing a girl who was dealing with parents who were unstable, critical of her appearance and at times emotionally, verbally and physically abusive. The company's overarching question to the jury has been whether Kaley's mental health problems were clearly caused by her social media use, while making the case that many other factors were to blame. This is what's known as the "but for" test in legal liability. If a harm would have occurred even without a defendant's purported action, then they cannot be blamed for the harm. Today, Kaley said she has a loving relationship with her mother and she is working while going to school. Her use of social media continues - she even admitted to the court that she would be interested in a career in social media management. But when asked if her life would be better had she never used platforms like Instagram, Kaley's answer was simple. "Yes." Katy Bailes, Peter Bowes and Regan Morris contributed to this report.