PM Images/DigitalVision via Getty Images Listen here or on the go via Apple Podcasts and Spotify Raul Shah from DocShah Financial shares why he's a value investor (0:30) Tax gain harvesting and more tax takeaways for investors (5:45) Risk tolerance and risk capacity (10:40) Hims & Hers, UnitedHealth, and Gambling.com (17:45) Risks to each stock (31:20) Transcript Rena Sherbill: Very happy to welcome back Raul Shah from DocShah Financial to Investing Experts. Welcome back to the show, Raul. Raul Shah: Hey Rena, thanks so much for having me. I'm super excited to be here. Rena Sherbill: It's great to have you. Really enjoyed talking to you last time. It was my first time talking to you, but you've been on before mainly talking Hims and Hers ( HIMS ), which is definitely a stock I want to get into in this conversation. But before we get into specific stocks, I would be interested for listeners to get a refresher about how you approach the markets coming from DocShah Financial, a registered investment advisory firm. Which by the way, you had returns of 41.44% per year, an equity return. Basically give us a brief overview of how you approach the markets and how you invest with your portfolios personally, professionally. Raul Shah: Sure, well you touched on a lot of interesting points there. So I founded DocShah Financial in late 2023. The firm's had phenomenal performance since then. As you stated, I don't even remember the exact number. I think it was 41% or so annual return. And I'm very proud of that. I deploy the same value investing strategies that Ben Graham and Buffett and Lynch use and popularize. I don't really try to chase speculative stocks. I value every company with a pretty decent margin of safety or really rather large margin of safety and I'm happy to talk about my process and what I do for all the clients of our firm. DocShah is very special in the investment world because you generally as a client need to pick one or the other. Either you go with an asset management company that will buy you individual securities or alternatives or all different kinds of investments, but you won't get any tax planning. Or you go the other route which is you work with a wealth management firm which will give you, generally speaking, very good tax planning, but you'll get horrendous portfolio management. You'll just get cookie cutter portfolios and you're gonna be paying a big fee for that. And DocShah really does a wonderful job of both. When I have clients, I do all of their portfolio management, value investing, concentrated positions, and they also get wonderful tax planning strategies as well. So we're really adding a lot of alpha on both sides and I'm just excited to be able to talk about value investing with you again. Rena Sherbill: Tis the season, if you're looking to combine some tax advantaged investing, now is definitely the time. It's interesting because we had Scott Kaufman on from The Dividend Kings last week, and he was talking about this rotation from growth into value. I'd be interested to hear your take on value, because those mythic and legacy names that you follow. What would you say about value in this time and in general, why you use value as an approach to the markets? Raul Shah: Yeah, that's a really good question. When you look at trying to build an investment portfolio, whether that's for yourself or for somebody else, what you're always trying to do is make the most amount of money for the least amount of risk. We call that risk-adjusted return. Now, generally speaking, the way that most people conceptualize risk, and you say this in the academic world a lot, but you'll see it quantified as volatility. People will say if a portfolio is volatile or a sock is volatile, that it's risky. And volatility is not risk. Volatility is opportunity. Both to the upside when you want to sell and to the downside if you want to buy. If a stock didn't ever move in price, there'd be no market for it because nobody would be buying shares that weren't moving. So you need volatility and you should embrace it. When I look at making risk-adjusted returns for clients and when you talk about what is value in today's market, it's the same as it's always been. You're looking to buy a great business at the biggest discount to its intrinsic value as possible. And that difference is margin of safety. Last time I was on I used a lemonade stand as an example. And I use that example many times in my personal life when I give talks or when I'm on podcasts. people, if they listen to me repeatedly, they're probably sick of me talking about it. But I'll use a lemonade stand as an example. If I sit outside on my porch and I see a kid who's got a lemonade stand and every day I see a line up and down the block. If I calculate what his lemonade stand is worth, which would be very easy to do. I can just look at what he's charging, look at how many customers he has. I see him do this the whole summer. I can very quickly figure out what his cash flows are going to be. Now let's just say his lemonade stand is worth a thousand bucks. If I walk up to the kid and I say, hey buddy, I want to buy your lemonade stand. And he says, I'll sell it to you for a million dollars. Well, that'd be a horrible investment, right? You would be taking on a massive amount of risk because one of two things would have to happen. Either you would have to buy the lemonade stand and get its profits up to a million dollars to recover your loss. Or you would have to ultimately accept the loss and sell it for $1,000, what it's worth. Either the earnings will meet the fair value or the fair value has to meet the earnings. One of two things has to happen. But if the kid offers to sell his $1,000 lemonade stand for $1 to me, I've got a huge margin of safety. There's so much value in that investment. At that point, it essentially becomes risk free. There's no way I could screw up that investment, even if I bought his lemonade stand and I poison the next cup of lemonade and sold it to somebody for a dollar fifty. Guess what? I just made fifty cents. I made a fifty percent return rate. You could not screw that up. So when I look at value in the market, what I'm trying to do is value every company in an extremely conservative fashion and then compare it to what the price is in the market. And if there's a steep discount, well I know I've got a tremendous investment on my hands and as long as I hold it for the long term and I don't make emotional decisions, I'm going to make a killing on that investment. Rena Sherbill: And if we could just spend like a minute or two on the tax side of things, because it's not often that we get somebody that is able to speak at an expert level on that side of things. I'm curious if there's something that you would say that investors get wrong, like maybe they don't think enough about the tax side of things, or maybe they think too much about the tax side of things, unforeseen consequences. What would you say about the most misunderstood thing that investors don't get about taxes? And maybe what would you say is the number one takeaway in this season to keep in mind for investors? Raul Shah: Sure. The first mistake that all investors make, well not all I shouldn't say, I shouldn't generalize, but what many investors make is they let the, what we call let the tax tail wag the dog. So they make a lot of investment decisions based off of what they think their ultimate tax consequence will be and that's a very wrong framework to operate from. You know, I use the joke, don't be the fool that turns down a raise because he's going to pay more in tax. You're still getting more money, right? What a lot of investors will do is they'll say, okay, maybe I've got a particular capital gain in the stock and you know I think it's going to go up more but I don't want to pay more in taxes so I'll sell the stock early or they do the reverse where a stock has gone down a lot and they think okay well I got an opportunity to recognize the capital loss I'll sell the stock I'll take the loss and then you're forbidden, well not forbidden, but to eliminate the IRS's wash rule you have to then not be in that security for 30 days and the stock could go ballistic in those 30 days. You don't want to make decisions in investing based off of what the tax consequences is going to be when you're buying individual stocks that is at least when you're buying individual stocks there's only two things that matter what's the company worth and what it's selling for that's it and I don't personally sell stocks until I think they're at their fair value and that's been something that I've done for many many years now in terms of actual tax planning strategies. I mean there's so many strategies that people don't realize probably the biggest will be tax gain harvesting. Tax gain harvesting, people don't realize there's a 0% capital gains tax bracket and there's no wash rule for tax gain harvesting. A married couple, know, married filing jointly, if you include the deductions and all the way filling up that 0 capital gains tax bracket, I don't know the exact numbers, you could probably sell $130,000, $140,000 of capital gains, long-term capital gains, completely tax-free. So can just sell the stock, buy the stock right back, immediately raise your cost basis, wipe out all those capital gains and not pay any tax. People don't do that because they don't know. So there are so many different tax strategies like that that people are just not aware of, even just understanding their accounts. People that watch this show, this is a very investor savvy audience, they're probably using their brokerage account, which is great for long term capital gains. But they probably also have a traditional IRA, which is a tax deferred account. That's a horrendous account to put stocks in, yet people just pack stocks in that account. The reason why it's horrendous is because you pay ordinary income tax on that balance on all the gains. Any time you pull money out of that account, it's going to get hit with an ordinary income tax. All else equal, if you're going to buy individual stocks, you should be utilizing your Roth and your brokerage account. That's what we call asset location. It's placing the appropriate investments in their appropriate account. You save a fortune in taxes just by not putting stocks in the wrong account. So there's all different kinds of tax strategies that people will just, they're not aware of. The average person probably spends hundreds of thousands of dollars extra in lifetime taxes when you add up all the taxes they pay for their entire life just because they don't know a lot of tax planning strategies. Rena Sherbill: Yeah, it seems like taxes, investing, broadly speaking, financial matters really puts many people into a fear point of view or a place of fear as opposed to a place of strength. And I think a lot of what you're talking about is just coming at it from a place of strength as opposed to a place of fear, which is always the goal, I think. It always makes for better outcomes, I would say, or nine times out of 10, at least. Raul Shah: Yeah, markets haven't changed for a thousand years. They're governed by two emotions and that's fear and greed. People will look at the price of a stock going up, they'll get greedy, they'll buy, they'll see it fall, they'll get fear and they'll panic and they'll sell. That's true for the past thousand years, it'll be true for the next thousand years. Every market is the exact same in that way. I often get asked, people will say, well, all information about companies is public, right? So theoretically, there should be no advantage between Raul Shah, Rena, and somebody listening to this in the audience, right? We all have access to the same information. And I tell people it's not the information, it's not the quantity, it's not the access, none of that stuff. It's the interpretation of the information, right? You and I could look at a balance sheet and an income statement and a cash flow statement of one company and we would have completely different perspectives on what that business is worth and what the future would look like. So it's your interpretation of these things that really drive stock prices. If you make decisions out of emotion and not rationale, you wind up with results that are proportionate to that strategy. Rena Sherbill: Interpretation and I would add risk appetite, risk tolerance, you know, all of those things are big factors. Raul Shah: You're very right. Risk tolerance and risk capacity, they're separate things, are very important. For example, somebody could be retired at age 65. They might have a very high risk tolerance, meaning that they want to take on risk and they want to try to make really good returns, but they don't have a good risk capacity. Their portfolio really does not allow to take on a lot of risk, even if they want to, because if they run out of money, well, then they're screwed. You contrast that with somebody who's 25, if they have a lifelong of earning power ahead of them, decades of earning power, you know, they should be taking on more risk all else equal. In terms of how do you build a portfolio that actually matches your desired return with your risk is not that complicated and it really involves the first part which is understanding what risk is. Risk is buying something for more than what it's worth. It's not volatility, it's not standard deviation, it's not beta. You talk to all these other fund managers, they always say, oh, the beta is this and the volatility is and they're just throwing out numbers and it's all nonsense. Risk is, did I overpay for something? Go back to the lemonade stand example. If I buy that lemonade stand for $1, is it risky? No. It's risk-free at that point. So there's always a price where a business becomes, is fairly valued, slightly less risky, even less risky, and just almost risk-free. So when you're building a portfolio, rather than trying to make a portfolio that doesn't have a lot of volatility or that has a low beta or a great sharp ratio, what you should be doing is trying to make sure that every single stock in your portfolio was bought at such a cheap price relative to what it's worth. That's the secret. That's it. Now, the reason why that's extremely difficult, it's not hard to figure out what a business is worth. mean, high school kids across the country do this day in and day out in good finance classes. The difficult part is having the discipline to stick to what you know, to not go out and speculate and get FOMO and buy all other kinds of things that you see in the news or that you heard your neighbor or friend talk about, and to only buy something when it is extremely discounted from its fair value. If you figure out a stock is worth a hundred bucks, buying it for 90 is not extremely discounted. It's essentially fairly valued. One bad earnings report, one little thing goes wrong, you could be looking at a really big loss. You want to buy a hundred dollar stock for like 20 bucks, 30 bucks because you've got a huge margin of safety. So when I look at portfolios, I'm trying to figure out what the discounts are in all of these stocks and then place them in people's accounts accordingly to what those discounts are. So if there's a stock that's discounted by 80%, that's extremely safe. I'll put a lot more of that stock in someone's account than a stock that's maybe discounted by 50 % and so on and so forth. And so that is a general framework of how to actually allocate capital in someone's portfolio. You've also got just common sense things of not putting all your eggs in one basket. I'll say there's a little caveat to that that a lot of people don't realize. If I have a portfolio, let's say I got a million bucks and I put all of it in one stock, it would be really stupid to do that. It doesn't matter if it's Apple ( AAPL ), Meta ( META ), some penny stock, whatever, it's never a good idea to put all your money in one stock. But what if I had bought two stocks and one stock grew so much that it essentially comprised the entire portfolio? That's not as risky anymore. Risk is putting it all in that one stock. your stock grows to that portfolio, it grows to the majority or 80, 90% of your portfolio balance, it's a very different risk profile because the cost basis is a lot lower. So there's a little bit of nuance to that and it's not an exact science. It's an art to being able to kind of judge your own and someone else's risk tolerance, their earning power over their lifetime, how much risk are they really taking, and then understanding and having the confidence really to be able to put money in a stock that is heavily discounted from its fair value and then continue to do so if that price falls and the fundamentals get better. That's where the real money is made but it's very challenging mentally and emotionally to do that which is why you really need to stick to facts and rationale. Rena Sherbill: Do you think that people that are savvy and adept at investing, would you say that it's inherent in your makeup, in your psyche, and then you also do a great job of building insight, building information, building knowledge, building experience, but would you say it takes a certain intrinsic something to have that appetite or would you say that it can be learned and taught just as easily? I know that this is a bit of a lofty question. Raul Shah: No, it's a really good question. And in fact, I'm not kidding, people are going to roll their eyes when I say this, I have stayed up at night thinking about this question. That's how good of a question it is. Rena Sherbill: Okay good, okay good, I'll take it. Raul Shah: I'll tell what I used to think. I used to think that anybody could be a good investor if they just learned to be more rational, make better decisions, value companies, learn a little bit of accounting, things like that. I have changed my perspective a little bit. And I think that partly comes from me, once I started the firm, you know, I've talked to a lot more individual investors. I've gotten a lot more reach. think I'm more in tune, I think now maybe with people than I, not as idealistic as maybe I was when I was kind of thinking about people as opposed to actually meeting them. I think it does take a certain intrinsic capability. I think it's hard to take someone who is inherently emotional and strip that away from them and tell them to be rational. It's like telling a homeless person, why don't you just buy a house? It's not always that easy. I think you need to have a certain hubris to, to be able to, I don't want to say try and beat the market or think you can beat the market, but, a certain hubris to understand a company and defend it, defend your, your ideas and your thesis from other people. You really have to have that confidence too. And you have to have experience. I think it can be learned to some degree, but I do think that some people are just better off at buying index funds and not checking their account every day. And some people are better at buying individual stocks. Rena Sherbill: I appreciate your honesty. I appreciate your thoughtfulness. Raul Shah: What do you think? Rena Sherbill: It's funny. I was just going to say, I totally agree for what it's worth. I would say talking to many people that know much more than I do, that have spent many more years doing this, that have much more experience. But also I would say that inherently seem to have a sense for it, an art for it, a love for it, a passion for it. And to your point, a certain moxie or hubris that even allows them to try. And then to add the other element of not just for them, but for other people. And also we talk so much on this podcast, or we talk a bit on this podcast about thoughtfulness. I think that also is a real gift and skill. And if people are willing to put that in their tool belt, I think also a very important factor in approaching markets and life and investing. Raul Shah: Yeah, I agree. Rena Sherbill: Your three biggest holdings are HIMS, UnitedHealth, and gambling.com . I know that you are being generous that you have offered to generously kind of share your thesis on those stocks. I think it would be super informative and edifying for our audience. If you would maybe go through each stock and how you're thinking about it and then maybe I might pick some some stuff apart if you don't mind. Raul Shah: Yeah, of course. I just have to add a little disclaimer here. It's not financial advice. It's just a standard regulatory disclaimer when you own an investment firm. But I'm happy to talk about the positions from an educational standpoint and give you a balanced view of how I kind of evaluate stocks. What do you want to start with? Rena Sherbill: Let's start with HIMS because you've been on before talking about that stock for a couple years, Hims & Hers Health ( HIMS ). Raul Shah: Sure, yeah, I personally own the stock since 2021 and I was one of the first positions I bought for the firm. I'll tell you a story real quick, really quickly. So there is a gentleman I email with back and forth, someone I really admire and he's really changed the way that I think about investing a lot of the times. And one of the things he was telling me, he lived through, know, Blockbuster being really just torn apart by Netflix ( NFLX ). I did too, but I was pretty young at the time. And he was telling this story about how that business model was really destined to be completely disrupted Blockbuster. And he defined disruption on some combination of faster, cheaper, easier, and better. Those four pillars. And if you look at Blockbuster, if you look at Netflix versus Blockbuster, Netflix was easier because you could just, it was mail-in DVDs, but you just kind of check off a DVD, you know, whatever you want, you send it off, and it just comes to your house, right? You don't need to get up, go to the store, risk Blockbuster on having it, stand in line, come back to all that kind of stuff. It was cheaper, right, once, especially when they got streaming, because ultimately you had access to a lot of movies for a very small price. It wasn't just like one price for one video like it was for Blockbuster. Okay, so it's easier and cheaper. Okay, it's faster to what took two trips to the store, actually four if you had to return the video, really was just from a click of a button now. Just boom, and you're watching Netflix much faster, much easier, much cheaper. It became better when they continued to refine all their movies and TV shows. You get Netflix originals, you get all these wonderful TV shows that you have. So now you've got a business that is faster than Blockbuster, cheaper than Blockbuster, easier to use than Blockbuster, and it's better than Blockbuster. And you would be surprised at how blind people are watching this unfold in front of their eyes. It's obvious when you look back in hindsight, but like while you're in it, it's like it just washes over people. They don't realize it. When I looked at HIMS, I saw the same thing compared to the traditional healthcare system. HIMS is faster, it's cheaper, it's easier. It's not quite better yet, but like Netflix, that's the last thing to come and that takes time. The traditional healthcare system was really destined to be disrupted and it wasn't until now that someone actually came along and is trying to do it. And so when I look at HIMS, what I see is a platform for healthcare that will ultimately have a membership like system like Costco where people will not just get prevent, will not just get treatments and therapies for their health conditions, but also preventative care. And that's where I see the market going to. And you can see a lot of telehealth companies popping up in this space because it's a wonderful business model. HIMS' gross margins are like 70 to 80%. You you look at the, if you ever read the book, 100 Baggers where Christopher Meyer talks about all the stocks that went up 100 to 1, one of the things they all had in common was exploding sales, but they also had fat gross margins. And we've got a company that's got exploding sales, they've grown like 80 % a year since inception, and they got fat gross margins. And they're in an industry that is getting disrupted left, right and center. And so I think it's a wonderful, from my perspective, when I look at this, this is once in a lifetime opportunity. When I look at UnitedHealth ( UNH ), you've got the biggest insurer in the entire United States. I think it's like the fourth largest employer. If you want to know the bottom line of why their stock is down, it's because their margins have gotten compressed, right? Their medical loss ratio is a lot higher than it was in the past. And health insurance companies are not like Chipotle. If Chipotle's costs go up, well, Chipotle would just raise the price the next day. You can't do that if you're UnitedHealthcare. You're just locked into a contract for a year. So you have to give UnitedHealthcare time to actually raise their premiums so that they can recoup all their higher costs. They had a lot more sick people in 2025 and in 2026 than they anticipated. They made sort of an actuarial calculation error. So their costs are a lot higher. But if you can't raise prices, what happens? Your margins get compressed. So over time as they raise their prices, their margins will come back. Now, in terms of the overall dynamics of the healthcare industry, because of the ACA, you have this sort of perverse incentive to keep medical costs high. So what does that mean with some numbers? Well, for UnitedHealthcare, their profits are capped at 15%. You can't expand beyond that if you do have to give rebates to your premium holders, the government, contractors. So your margins are capped at 15%. Well, that's a problem because generally speaking, if you're a business owner, what do you want to do? You want to offer the highest quality good or service for the lowest price, right? You're trying to become the most efficient you can. You're trying to expand your margins as much as you can because everybody benefits when you do that. You make more profits and people get cheaper things in higher quantities. But if you price fix the margin, well, you create a perverse incentive to raise the price of your goods to match the raise in cost because it's the only way you can make money so I'll give you some numbers if you're UnitedHealth you have to spend 85 cents of every dollar that you make on the actual member right in some form of health care where you have to get 85 cents back in value. Well, okay, if you can't drop beneath that the only way you can make more money is if you double the cost of health care and increase your revenue by the same amount. So if you take numbers, if it costs 85 cents for every dollar that you are making in profit that you have to pay out. Well, if you raise that cost and it's now 90, 95 cents and you raise the revenue, you're making a much larger nominal amount. And so you create this really perverse incentive to move both revenue and cross up and lockstep. And so ultimately, this is not like a new revelation. This has been going on for a decade. But you got to give UnitedHealth time to actually raise their prices to make up for the higher costs. And the margins will come back and the stock price will go up. Gambling.com group ( GAMB ) is a very small microcap company. They essentially do marketing for online casinos, sports settings, and they own a lot of gambling data with optic odds and odds jam. They provide essentially, they're like an online, data aggregator for people who are looking to bet. And their stock is trading at very, very low prices, but the fundamentals are fantastic. Their balance sheet's little wonky right now, but they make 30, 40, 50 million free cash flow every single year. They've been growing at 20%, 30 % a year. It's a fantastic company, and it's got 50 % inside ownership. Rena Sherbill: What's your timeline on the margins improving at UnitedHealth? Raul Shah: That's a good question. First of all, they're expecting it to increase a little bit this year, like marginally. You'll probably see bigger increases in 2027 and 2028. Why is that? Well, for one, they're implementing AI like every other company is, but I actually think they have a good way to bring down some of their costs with AI. That's number one. Number two, they're shedding a lot of, unprofitable plans that they were previously sponsoring. that's the second reason. And then they're going to raise prices. Remember, when their margins compressed last year, they were locked in. They can't do anything about their premiums. But now everyone's health insurance is probably going up by 10%, 15%, 20%. And UnitedHealthcare has done the exact same thing. So they're raising their prices, and they're kind cutting back a little bit of costs. And the margins will come back. They went through the same thing in 2015 and 2016. If you go look at their net margins, I think they were at 3 % both those years. And then they came right back to like 5 and 6%. GAMB, the first thing to do is clean up their balance sheet that'll take it two or three years once they clean up their balance sheet their free cash flow we would buy back almost their entire float within one year i mean it's that cheap. And Hims, I think it's like a like a powder keg. I think it could a be very fun year. Rena Sherbill: Do you have price targets on these stocks? Raul Shah: I think conservative speaking, HIMS is probably worth close to $100. I think UnitedHealthcare is worth around $550. And I think Gambling.com is worth about $15, $20. And that's based on my forecast of their free cash flows. Reasonable minds can differ. But from my estimates, conservatively speaking, I think those are the fair values of those businesses. Rena Sherbill: And if/when it hits that, that's when you take profits and move into something else, or how do you handle that? Raul Shah: Yeah, at that point, it's funny, fair values are, they change every second, right, in theory. And so, you have to always reassess if in, let's say two years, you know, I think stock ABC is worth 15 bucks and it goes at 15 bucks. If, if they're expected to continue to grow, the fair value at that point could be 25, you know, or it could be 30, you know, it's not sort of set in stone like that. So it's on a sort of a case by case basis. If I think that they've conservatively, I don't think that they'll grow as fast and 15 is a fair price. I'll sell the stock that day. I'm not married to any stock and nor should anybody be. Rena Sherbill: I'm curious if you would speak a bit more about the, broadly speaking, the healthcare industry. Cause like, as you mentioned, there's so many paradigm shifts afoot in that industry in particular. Kenio Fontes is an analyst we've had on before and he just wrote an article yesterday about AI being the secret factor to UnitedHealth's turnaround. AI is a huge thing in healthcare that we've had a few people on here talking about. What would you say about healthcare in general and why these two are so, I mean, I know you've spoken to it already, but why these two are so primed to take advantage of that? Raul Shah: Well, I think I read that article, by the way. I think I might have read it this morning. It was a good article. Rena Sherbill: Nice, nice. Raul Shah: The healthcare industry is obviously very complicated. When I look at HIMS and the space that they occupy in the healthcare industry, I'm thinking of friction points between like an individual patient and getting treatment. you got to call the doctor. That's a friction point. You got to wait like a month, two months sometimes to get an appointment. You gotta then drive all the way there, sit in the waiting room for an hour while the doctor, you know, is with other patients. Then you go to the smaller waiting room, right? That's an old Seinfeld bit, right? You were in one waiting room, but then you get called in and you're still in a waiting room. You then get seen, you come back, then you gotta go to the pharmacy, come back, all this kind of stuff, right? There's like a dozen friction points. And when you've got a company that can come around and solve those, that's something to pay attention to. The healthcare industry has not been modernized. I mean, go open a ( CVS ) app or like an Amazon ( AMZN ) telehealth app. I mean, they look horrible. I mean, they look like a middle school kid made those, some of those apps. So there's a big opportunity in the healthcare industry for technology, AI, to come in and really clean up house. Capitalism is a wonderful thing. The free market can take whatever binds that is given by the government and they can go in and they can say, how can we make this more efficient? And it's a really wonderful thing to see. You've got so many regulations and different policies in terms of health insurance and as it pertains to UnitedHealthcare. At the end of the day, it's simply just a case of how do we make the margins lower and how do we make the revenue continue to grow? They'll do that over the next two or three years. I don't see insurance prices coming down. And part of that is the way insurance is structured. Insurance covers regular routine care. I sort of use an analogy. It's like auto insurance, it doesn't cover your gasoline. If it covered your gasoline, the price of gas would go through the roof because nobody would care. It would just be in your premium. You would just take cruises around the block all day long. You're not paying for the gas. So what difference does it make? You'll just use it up. So when you have a system like that and you've got routine care covered by insurance company, care of things that you don't even use, things that the opposite gender of you might be utilizing but not you, but it's still you paying for it in your plan. It's not easy to bring those costs down. That's my overall take. Barring some sort of extreme regulatory change, I would imagine that it's really just up to companies to come in and implement tech and AI and just make the best do with the binds that they have. Rena Sherbill: And sticking to those two for a second, what would you say is most concerning to you risk wise? Raul Shah: So I would say Hims, anytime you have a company that's disrupting another company, you're going to wind up in situations where you push the envelope too far and you could get into regulatory trouble. Hims was going through that with the FDA and the DOJ. I think a lot of those risks have been mitigated though. They got this new deal with Novo Nordisk ( NVO ) to sell their Wegovy pill. It's been a wild week. Novo went from suing them to partnering with them. You're going to get a lot of that. You're to get a lot of lawsuits and things like that when you're invested in HIMS. With UnitedHealthcare, you have to realize that it's a lot of their ability to succeed is out of their control. It depends what Medicare will pay for the contracted plans. I think they came out with a 0.9 % increase over last year, which is extremely low, and the stock had a huge sell-off because of that. So you're kind of at the mercy of the government. That's a big regulatory threat. I would say the biggest threats are just regulation and legislation, but the businesses themselves are cash-producing machines. Rena Sherbill: This isn't how you approach the markets, but I'm wondering if you would have any noteworthy things to say about the factors that the quant system looks at. Like these stocks are sells to hold. What would you say that you factor in the most when you're looking at a stock and what would you say is the least important to you when you're, when you're valuing these stocks? Raul Shah: Yeah, I've noticed, I've seen the quant system for a lot of these names and I'll see like a strong sell for the quants and it's funny right next to it's like analyst recommendation and it's like strong buy. So that situation definitely can arise. I think in general the way that I look at an investment, if I see revenue going up every year, it's wonderful because revenue is just a proxy for demand. Doesn't matter how you chop it up. If you sell more of something at a lower price, or less of something at a higher price. Revenue is demand, and if there's demand for your products, that's really step one. Revenue going down is a really bad sign. You also want to see a good balance sheet. Ideally, you'd like to see a ton of cash and no debt. Talkspace was actually the second biggest position I had for the firm, for clients, for a big chunk of 2025. I bought it at an average cost basis of, I think, $2.81 at the firm level, one big block trade. And the stock just got taken private at $5.25. Actually, that was a horrible price to sell it at. The company was worth a lot more than $5.25. But that balance sheet was pristine. $92 million in cash, no debt. You don't see companies like that very often. Peter Lynch has an old joke which is that, it might surprise people, but if you don't have any debt it's really hard to go bankrupt. It's funny because it's such an obvious statement, but you want to have a good balance sheet because it's safety. You buy a stock that's got a horrible balance sheet, ton of debt, no cash, you better pray to God they keep making a lot of money. Revenue growing, a lot of cash, not a lot of debt. Ideally, you'd like to see adjusted EPS going up every year, right, the earnings. I use adjusted because earnings per share is an accounting measure of profit. It's very different from free cash flow, which is a true measure, a cash measure of profit. Earnings per share is very manipulated by accounting. That don't mean like nefariously manipulated. But you have lot of non-cash deductions, have lot of interest charges, and other things like that that kind of warp your earnings per share. They don't really tell you the full picture of your business. So adjusted EPS kind of backs out a lot of those things in one-time transactions that kind of makes it look a lot more smooth. So you want to see adjusted earnings per share going up every year. And if you just follow those four things, and cash flow from operations. That's another big one. If you're looking at a business, you want to make sure that the actual underlying business, what do they do or are the widgets that they're selling every year, are they becoming more efficient at that? And that's what the cash flow from operations will tell you. So I always tell people, look at those five things. If you've got a company that their revenue is going up every year, their earnings per share is going up every year, their balance sheet looks great, they've got a ton of cash, they don't have a lot of debt, and their cash flow from operations is going up every year, value that company, figure out what it's worth, and then look at what it's selling at, because you might have a wonderful, wonderful business on your hands. And those companies are extremely rare. Rena Sherbill: Gambling.com, I would ask the same question in terms of the industry. I mean, a ton of growth in that industry. What would you say about that? And then the biggest risks that you see there. Raul Shah: I compare online gambling or gambling in general to vices like smoking. I people have smoked for, I don't know how long, hundreds of thousands of years, maybe more, I don't know. And people will continue to smoke. And gambling is the same way. I don't think there's really a strong correlation either between bad economies and gambling. I mean, people, if they're sitting at home, they don't have a job. They just seem to throw five bucks at something and they gamble. It's fun. So gambling's not going anywhere. I would say that the biggest risk is their balance sheet. They have a lot of debt. They need to pay that down. They also have a lot of free cash flow every year. So it would take them two or three years to pay down their debt and then they can start funneling that cash into buybacks. So you get a little bit of a waiting period with that stock. But it's selling for like three, four bucks right now. And I think it's worth a lot more. So I think the risk reward is favorable. Normally, I wouldn't go for a stock that's got a bad balance sheet like that. But this was kind of an exception. You gotta know the rules so you know when to break them. Rena Sherbill: To paraphrase Kenny Rogers. Are there other names you like in the space? Raul Shah: In the gambling.com space? Or sorry, in the gambling space? Rena Sherbill: Yeah, that's how much you like that stock. It's become like Kleenex. Raul Shah: Yeah. It's my whole world. I haven't really looked too much beyond that stock. I may have looked at some competitors just before I bought the company to make sure that it was good relative to everybody else. But no, no other stock in the gambling.com space. I'm trying to think of having anything that I'm watching. I remember missing Meta when it crashed like a few years ago and I look back I think that was the most obvious buy of all time I didn't partake in that I looked at Google ( GOOG ) ( GOOGL ) you know last year and I was like I almost pulled the trigger and I didn't in hindsight that was probably the most obvious buy of all time. Amazon ( AMZN ) is a very small position at the firm level I kind of see a similar you know value add to some of those other mega caps that I just mentioned have but I don't really have too many other you know too many other major stocks on my watch list it's a pretty overpriced market in general I don't know how you feel about it, but a lot of stocks trading at very high prices relative to what they're worth. Rena Sherbill: Are your clients during times like this of speaking to the fear portion of things, there's a lot of fear right now, are they writing in about fear? Are they wanting to get into energy names? Are there things like that that you're dealing with in times like this, or are clients pretty well-versed in what you're bringing to the table and they are believers in that enough that they stick to it? Raul Shah: I'll tell you a story. Last year around this same time, the market had a big correction. And on X, I follow a lot of other wealth managers in the space and they were all sharing stories about how they had clients calling in and how they were basically telling them to stay calm and just relax, is par for the course, that kind of a thing. And I didn't have any emails from any clients. I was so proud of them that I literally sent an email out to everybody, a mass email and the subject line was I said I'm really proud of all of you. And I said I follow a lot of other wealth managers in the space and they got people calling in and panicking and this and that and I didn't have a soul reach out to me. If you look at the price of HIMS and Gambling.com over the last six months, there's been a lot of reasons to reach out to me and I haven't had any clients reach out to me. It's really a testament to their character. I think they're wonderful people and I think that they understand investing pretty well and I think communication is very important. I try to be very proactive about that so I make sure that I sit down with everybody. You can mitigate a lot of fears if you explain to someone what they own. If somebody does not know what they own, that's when they panic. But if you can show them the balance sheet, you show them the income statement, you walk through why you own this stock and you tell them to be patient, that's all they need. The three cases, HIMS, Gambling.com, UnitedHealth, their full year of 2025 results and their Q4 results were pretty much as business as usual. Both HIMS and Gambling.com sandbagged their guidance for 2025 or for 2026. HIMS is the king of sandbagging. I know, I've owned this stock since 2021. They're not as bad as they used to be. When I owned the stock years past, I mean, they would just throw out these low ball targets, that were like how it works. You think that it might help you if you do that, like you throw out like a softball comp and then you crush it. But the problem is that if you train the market to think that like, they will notice that and then they will stop taking you seriously. And then if one day you don't crush those softball comps, you kind of get killed. But I was happy with all of their reports. I think that the businesses are doing fine. Business valuations don't change much on a quarter to quarter basis. The stock price will change every second, but the actual valuations don't really change that much. And I didn't see anything that made me think that the value of these companies was going down or that it was worth monumentally more than what I originally calculated in 2025. Rena Sherbill: What would you say are the filings that you pay the most attention to? Raul Shah: Good question. I'll talk about my process and I'll weave in the filings that I pay attention to. I like to use, well first of all, I Seeking Alpha a lot. One of the things I like about Seeking Alpha is that I can actually go and I can check inside ownership very quickly. I can check the revenue growth. And I love Seeking Alpha for the transcripts. So every time the earnings come out, I know I can go online, I'll get the full transcript, I can just click right there, listen to it, I can listen to the car, can do whatever I want and close my phone, everything's good. The transcripts are very important. And it's not just the first part where they talk about their business, but it's really also the analyst questions. You have to listen to the earnings call and not just once sometimes. Sometimes you've got to listen like three, four times and really like dig in. You don't need to read the entire 10K. I know some people are masochist and they like to do that, but you don't need to do that. You need to check the financials. You need to check the balance sheet, the income statement, the cash flow statement. You need to check that you're not being deluded like crazy. Very easy, just check the shares, the weighted average shares outstanding, diluted, basic, whatever the heck you want, doesn't matter. But if you can cover those things, right, the financials, the earnings call, and you do this every single quarter, you will have a very good knowledge of that business and you will start to realize that investing is not as scary as it seems. And you'll start to learn that you won't pay as much attention to the stock price because you're looking at the company making all this cash people don't realize that stocks will trade at their fair value one of two ways. Either the market gives it a fair price or you cannibalize your way to one. And what that means is that if you're the company and you're producing so much cash flow and the market is not buying your stock and giving you a fair multiple, you know what you're gonna do? You're gonna take that and you're gonna go buy back your shares. Look at AutoZone ( AZO ). AutoZone has retired an exponential amount of shares over the last 20 years They just keep buying back their stock every year. They have less shares outstanding than the year before. Go look at the stock price, AutoZone through the roof exponential goes up every single year. Doesn't matter if nobody else buys the stock if you have enough cash you just buy the stock yourself. Rena Sherbill: I appreciate that. Raul, I appreciate this conversation. You're welcome back anytime. You have an open invitation. Again, you write on Seeking Alpha under DocShah Financial . That's also the name of your firm. How can people get in touch with you? And if you'd care to share anything else that we left out of this conversation that you feel like we should include, happy for you to share that. Raul Shah: Well, thank you for having me on again. It's always a pleasure. This is really the third time I've been on now. The first time was with Daniel and Austin, and now this is the second time with you. I started writing on Seeking Alpha in 2018, and I've loved it. It's been a great time, and I'm going to continue to write on Seeking Alpha. If anybody wants to find me, just Google my name online. It's Raul Shah. It's the easiest way. The firm website is there. If you ever want to reach out to me and have your portfolio actively managed, just shoot me a contact form message you want to follow me on X it's just Raul_DSF but if you Google me all my stuff is there reach out any time you want. Editor's Note: This article discusses one or more securities that do not trade on a major U.S. exchange. Please be aware of the risks associated with these stocks.