D aphne Noble saw the signs everywhere. The principal of Breathitt High School in Jackson, Kentucky, would find herself slaloming through the halls to dodge children staring at their phones, apparently unaware of their surroundings. The number of fights and suicide attempts increased. What was once a rarity for the counsellor Kera Howard — social media-related conflict or mental health challenges — became the core of her job, taking 75 per cent of her time, she said. “Many students have developed the belief that they can say or send virtually anything through these platforms without consequence,” she said in court documents. A rash of property damage bubbled up as pupils began ripping soap dispensers off the bathroom walls as part of a viral challenge. The cash-strapped school in a cash-strapped county, where one in four of its 13,000 residents lives below the poverty line, had to divert some of its few resources towards mental health counselling, to sealable pouches to store pupils’ phones during the day, to property damage repairs. Breathitt, in short, was overwhelmed. And Noble, for one, was clear on the culprit. “The kids are addicted to social media,” she said in a deposition. On June 15, Breathitt will finally get its day in court — three years after it sued the social media giants Meta, YouTube, TikTok and Snapchat for creating a crisis that Breathitt, and thousands of school districts like it, has been left to clean up. Mark Zuckerberg, head of Meta, outside court in Los Angeles Jill Connelly/Getty Images The world has changed dramatically since it began that legal odyssey. Last week, two juries in two states — California and New Mexico — found social media companies guilty of creating products that harmed their users. In Los Angeles, a jury awarded $6 million (£4.5m) to a 20-year-old woman who claimed her addiction to YouTube — starting from when she was six — and Meta’s Instagram caused depression and self-harm. (TikTok and Snap, the parent company of Snapchat, agreed last-minute, out-of-court settlements before the trial began). After a five-week trial and nearly nine days of deliberation, the jury found Meta and YouTube guilty on all seven counts, including the core question of whether the apps were addictive and if the companies acted with “malice, oppression, or fraud”. Meta was ordered to pay $4.2 million, while YouTube must pay $1.8 million. The day before the verdict, a New Mexico jury found Meta guilty of enabling child predators. The state, whose attorney-general had brought the case, was awarded $375 million in damages. Meta said it “respectfully disagreed” with both verdicts, and it plans to appeal. But Laura Marquez-Garrett, an attorney at the Social Media Victims Law Centre, a campaign group in Seattle that has been involved in the legal fight for years, said the decisions were not the end of the fight, but the beginning. “This is absolutely the snowball starting to roll down the mountain,” she said. After years of the industry killing any meaningful regulation in Washington, a wave of more than 2,600 civil cases brought by parents, schools and states is crashing over the industry. At the heart of them all lies the same goal: to establish a legal precedent that social media tools are purpose-built for addiction, which generates a cascade of societal and personal harms. Bereaved parents listed the names of children whose deaths they blame on social media Frederic J Brown/AFP/Getty Images They celebrated the decision at Los Angeles county superior court last week ted soqui/EPA If proven, the multitrillion-dollar industry could face a fate similar to Big Tobacco in 1998 when, faced with a wave of litigation, the companies were forced to change how they marketed their products and fund a $206 billion mitigation fund to cover damages, finance public health programmes and other measures aimed at addressing harm. A core goal for campaigners and parents is to force the social media giants to alter how their apps are designed, including potentially getting rid of “addictive” features such as “infinite scroll”, which offers no natural stopping point for consumption, or ending the default “autoplay” function that starts the next video as soon as one finishes. If such a precedent is set, it will lead to demands for similar protections in jurisdictions around the world. “We have been battling against ten to twenty years’ worth of these companies lying to people, claiming their products were safe, having to get over the guilt that they’ve instilled in us, that it’s our fault, not theirs. For two juries in two days to say, ‘Nope, you did it.’ That says something,” said Marquez-Garrett. The industry is, for now, standing its ground, arguing that safety is a core concern, that apps are not clinically addictive, that they are being scapegoated for broader societal problems. And yet the tide appears to be turning. US newsletter A balanced, fair and fact-checked take on global news and culture for our US readers. Sign up with one click Governments have begun to institute social media bans for children. The companies have been forced by the lawsuits to turn over millions of internal documents that have begun to trickle into the public domain, often to damning effect. “We’re basically pushers”, wrote one employee, comparing Instagram to a drug. A TikTok report admitted that young people were its “core audience” while also acknowledging that “minors do not have executive mental function to control their screen time”. Snap, owner of SnapChat, admitted that those who were “addicted” to the app “have no room for anything else. Snap dominates their life.” Plaintiffs are building a mountain of evidence and often lurid stories they argue illustrate the harms. At least 200 schools in more than 1,000 school districts, and local governments across the US have filed lawsuits against social media companies, claiming they are responsible for a nationwide mental health crisis among young people. In the New Mexico case, Katherine Salazar, an assistant principal at Wilson Middle School in Albuquerque, testified how a pupil, after having a phone confiscated, returned to the classroom with a rock, smashed the window and “completely ransacked” the room in search of the phone. “Before social media existed,” she testified, “it was just a fight. Now it’s a fight that leads to another, something that leads to another, something that leads to another.” ● Children start school ‘trying to swipe and tap books’ Social media’s legal reckoning is proceeding, mostly, in two places: the Los Angeles county superior court, and 370 miles up the coast, in a federal court in Oakland, California. In LA, the judge chose a handful of “bellwether” cases to go to trial from thousands filed in recent years. In Oakland, plaintiffs’ lawyers chose half a dozen, as did the social media companies. In each court, the legal theory being tested, the defences, and indeed much of the evidence, will be broadly similar. The goal is to set, in state and federal courts, a strong legal precedent. And that precedent will be weaponised to either force the industry to dramatically change its ways and pay for damages caused, or it will hand Meta and its ilk the legal standing to operate as they do now. While the companies appeal against the recent rulings, the next of eight additional cases set for trial in Los Angeles will get under way. In Oakland, Breathitt’s case, which begins in mid-June, will be the first of 12 bellwether cases to be heard. Boxes of documents taken to the Los Angeles court where, below, the plaintiff was anonymised Mario Tama/Getty Images BackGrid To say the struggle is existential for the companies is not an overstatement. Given their reach and dominance in everyday life — 84 per cent of Americans use social media regularly, according to Pew Research — a mitigation fund could become very big indeed. But perhaps more fundamentally, a string of losses could be the lever to force them to make the changes that campaigners have long demanded. These include more effective age verification processes and changing the settings on the apps so that all of the micro-nudges designed to keep people swiping are switched to “off” as the default. As Wall Street digested news of the verdicts, shares in Meta, Alphabet and Snap plunged by 9 per cent, 7 per cent and 11 per cent, respectively, wiping out more than $370 billion of their value. On a briefing call with journalists last week, Meta put on a brave face, claiming the losses were not all that bad, given the verdict in Los Angeles was not unanimous, and that the $6 million in damages fell short of the $1 billion-plus being sought. A spokesman said: “I would encourage people not to look at this as sort of a black and white, win-loss scenario.”