The redacted documents, which were made public on Friday, reveal that Zuckerberg sent a text message to Musk in February 2025. He expressed support for the progress made by DOGE and assured Musk of his team’s readiness to remove any content that threatened or doxxed Musk’s team. “Let me know if there’s anything else I can do to help,” wrote Zuckerberg. Responding to Zuckerberg’s message, Musk expressed gratitude with a heart emoji and brought up the topic of OpenAI . He asked Zuckerberg if he was open to jointly bidding on OpenAI’s intellectual property. Although Zuckerberg showed interest in discussing the matter, he never officially joined the bid, as disclosed in previous court documents. In August, OpenAI’s lawyers had pressed Meta over its role in Musk’s $97 billion bid to take over ChatGPT-parent. They claim that Musk spoke directly with Zuckerberg “about potential financing arrangements or investments.” Musk Vs Altman Trial The texts were discovered in relation to Musk’s ongoing lawsuit against OpenAI and its CEO Sam Altman . In a separate filing, Musk’s lawyers argued that his communications with Zuckerberg should be excluded from the lawsuit, stating that they were tangential and prejudicial. The lawsuit, whose proceedings are scheduled to begin April 28 in Oakland, alleges that Altman defrauded Musk by shifting OpenAI away from its original non-profit mission, despite Musk contributing roughly $38–45 million in the mid-2010s. Notably, earlier this month, Musk stated that any proceeds from a potential legal victory against OpenAI would be donated to charity , reinforcing his non-profit intentions. Disclaimer: This content was partially produced with the help of AI tools and was reviewed and published by a Benzinga editor . Photo courtesy: Frederic Legrand – COMEO from Shutterstock Market News and Data brought to you by Benzinga APIs © 2026 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. To add Benzinga News as your preferred source on Google, click here .