Apple's 50th Anniversary Celebrations Go Global In New York, Alicia Keys delivered a live performance at Apple Grand Central , while Paris hosted a French electronic music showcase featuring producers and DJs reinterpreting classic tracks using Mac. Apple CEO Tim Cook also took to X and said, "Thank you for celebrating 50 years of thinking differently with us at Apple Champs-Élysées, Pedro and Julian! Please send me that track! #Apple50." In Tokyo, virtual artist Mori Calliope headlined a live performance. From fashion showcases in Shanghai to filmmaking panels in Mexico City, Apple positioned its ecosystem encompassing iPhone, iPad and Mac as a catalyst for cultural innovation. Spotlight On Creators Across Music, Art And Film The celebrations also featured a wide range of creators — from musicians and designers to filmmakers and athletes — all demonstrating how Apple devices power their work. In Sydney, digital artwork created on an iPad was projected onto the sails of the Sydney Opera House. Meanwhile, Canadian skater Elladj Baldé showcased iPhone-shot content. A 50-Year Journey From Garage Startup To $3.4T Giant Founded in 1976 by Steve Jobs , Steve Wozniak and Ronald Wayne Apple has evolved from a personal computing pioneer into one of the world's most valuable companies. The tech giant currently has a market cap of 3.32 trillion. In January, Apple reported fiscal first-quarter revenue of $143.76 billion, surpassing analyst expectations of $138.42 billion. The iPhone maker also reported earnings of $2.84 per share, topping estimates of $2.66 per share. Price Action: Apple closed at $248.80, down 1.62% on Friday and slipped further 0.62% to $247.25 in after-hours trading, according to Benzinga Pro. Year-to-date the company has declined by 8.20%. According to Benzinga Edge Stock Rankings , AAPL is trending lower in the short and medium term, while maintaining an upward trajectory over the long term, with its Quality score placing it in the 98th percentile. Disclaimer : This content was partially produced with the help of AI tools and was reviewed and published by Benzinga editors. Photo Courtesy: Laura Hutton on Shutterstock.com