TechRadar is hosting a live Q&A for Amazon's Big Spring Sale on March 30 (10–11am ET) The team will offer real-time advice on whether discounts are genuinely worth buying The session will feature our in-house deals experts Alex Whitelock, James Pickard and Mackenzie Frazier Amazon's Big Spring Sale has well and truly sprung, which means the TechRadar team is busy scouring the retailer's listings to help you decide which of our favorite tech products are actually worth buying. With so many tempting savings to explore across the week-long deals bonanza, we've tapped our best deals experts to answer any last-minute questions you might have before the sale ends next Tuesday (March 31). You can start sharing your queries below now, but the live Q&A itself will run for an hour from 10am to 11am ET on Monday (March 30). During that time, our expert deals editors Alex Whitelock, James Pickard and Mackenzie Frazier will be available to answer any queries you have in real time. Article continues below In the meantime, you can check out today's top deals on vacuums, TVs, AirPods, kitchen appliances, headphones, and more in our roundup of 65 editor-vetted deals in the Amazon Big Spring Sale . We'll be updating this list as new deals get announced, stock runs out, and prices change, so make sure to bookmark the page if you're tracking specific products. Whether you are torn between two different OLED models or wondering if that 'record deal' on a robot vacuum is actually a historical low price, our team is here to help you bag the best savings. Don't leave your budget to chance; get a second opinion from the experts who track these prices year-round. How to participate in TechRadar's Amazon Big Spring Sale live Q&A Simply scroll down to the comments section below and post your questions. Our editors will be monitoring the thread starting today, but the live Q&A session kicks off on Monday. We’ll prioritize the most detailed questions first, so tell us your budget, your must-have features, and which products you're currently considering to help us give you the right advice. If you're not sure what to ask, here are some example questions we regularly come across: Sign up for breaking news, reviews, opinion, top tech deals, and more. I see the AirPods Pro 3 are $199.99 — is this a record low or should I wait for Prime Day in July? Which 65-inch OLED TV under $1,500 offers the best value? Is the 39% off discount on the Dyson V8 Plus a genuine price drop, or has it historically been priced lower? All questions must be related to the Amazon Big Spring Sale, and while we're encouraging everyone to ask questions in the run-up to next week's event (make sure to leave a comment below), we'll only be answering those that are about deals that are still live. It probably goes without saying that we won't answer any questions with inappropriate or offensive language. This live Q&A is designed to be an open space for anyone looking to make smarter buying decisions before the sale ends.