Apple has officially discontinued the Mac Pro The company allegedly has no plans for a new version in the future TechRadar readers say its $700 wheels are the worst-ever Apple product It’s official: Apple has killed off the Mac Pro . The company’s flagship desktop Mac – a maxed-out model of which could cost over $50,000 – is no longer available for sale on Apple’s website, with the Mac Pro page redirecting to the general Mac homepage. And according to 9to5Mac , this isn’t just some website glitch — the outlet claimed that Apple confirmed to it that the Mac Pro has been permanently discontinued. We say “permanently” because 9to5Mac also alleged that Apple said it has no further plans for future Mac Pro hardware. That’s about as definitive as it gets. The Mac Pro’s last update came in 2023, and with only three revisions in the last 14 years, it has been clear for some time that the Mac Pro was low on Apple’s priority list. And while a new M4 Ultra model was rumored in 2025, it never came to pass. The dearth of updates suggested that sales numbers were meager, and evidently Apple felt it was not worth developing it further with new chips and features given the minimal public interest. Article continues below Even before it was canceled, the Mac Pro was in an awkward spot. Despite starting at $6,999 / £7,199 (around AU$10,160), it was outperformed by the Mac Studio that, at $1,999 / £2,099 / AU$3,499, cost less than a third of the Mac Pro’s price. But with an outdated M2 Ultra compared to the Mac Studio’s M3 Ultra , the Mac Pro’s appeal was largely limited to its superior expansion options — but that alone struggled to justify the price difference. The curse of the $700 wheels (Image credit: Brittany Hosea-Small/ AFP/ Getty Images) Despite its top-level features and eye-watering price tag, the Mac Pro was at times overshadowed by its own accessories. Specifically, the base model came on a set of four static legs, but these could be complemented by a pack of four wheels that would allow you to move it around. The problem? Those four wheels were priced at an outrageous $699 / £699 / AU$1,049. That quickly set social media ablaze, with the idea that it was emblematic of Apple’s price-gouging tendencies quickly gaining traction. It was an idea that Apple struggled to shake – even as the company released tremendous value-for-money offerings like the Mac mini and MacBook Neo in the years since – and came to tarnish the Mac Pro in the eyes of the public. Indeed, we conducted a survey in the official TechRadar WhatsApp channel asking users to name the worst-ever Apple product. The winner (if you can call it that) was none other than the $699 Mac Pro wheel set, which took a whopping 56% of the vote (we’ll be revealing the full results this weekend). Sign up for breaking news, reviews, opinion, top tech deals, and more. Our readers are not alone. Over on Reddit , users sarcastically lamented the demise of the pricey wheel set. “End of an era,” said one commenter, while another humorously claimed: “I picked some up yesterday, willing to sell them for $2,500 per wheel. Please DM me if interested.” Clearly, the wheels were seen as a huge misstep by Apple. And with the Mac Pro reaching its end of life, perhaps the all-powerful computer will be judged the same way. Although it had a dedicated audience, it always struggled to justify its own existence. Now it’s been consigned to history, seemingly for good. Follow TechRadar on Google News and add us as a preferred source to get our expert news, reviews, and opinion in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button! And of course you can also follow TechRadar on TikTok for news, reviews, unboxings in video form, and get regular updates from us on WhatsApp too.