Claude now burns through your 5-hour usage limits faster during weekday peak hours (5am–11am PT ) The change wasn’t formally announced — it surfaced via an engineer’s post on X Your weekly limits haven’t changed, but when you use Claude matters more now than ever Anthropic is reducing message limits for even Pro and Max customers during its peak hours in a new effort to cope with demand. “To manage growing demand for Claude we're adjusting our 5 hour session limits for free/Pro/Max subs during peak hours. Your weekly limits remain unchanged”, said Thariq Shihipar, an engineer who works on Claude Code, in a post on X. Unlike ChatGPT, which has a daily message limit, Claude operates in five-hour windows. Once you’ve hit your limit in a five-hour window, you have to use a less premium model, or wait for your next window refresh to use it again. Article continues below An AI company changing the rules after you’ve already signed up is the sort of thing that usually provokes a user backlash, but it seems to happen quite often. OpenAI ditching AI video generator Sora with no notice this week springs to mind as an example. This time, however, it's Anthropic who is pulling the rug out from under its users by changing its rules around message limits. Around 7% of users affected Shihipar continues: “During weekdays between 5am–11am PT / 1pm–7pm GMT, you'll move through your 5-hour session limits faster than before.” Sign up for breaking news, reviews, opinion, top tech deals, and more. So, if you are in the Pacific Time Zone (PT), you might want to use Claude mainly from the late morning onwards if you don’t want to burn through your message allowance. For users in the Greenwich Mean Time (GMT), you’re best avoiding the afternoon and early evenings. If you live in another country, you’ll have to work out when Claude’s peak hours affect you. According to Shihipar, "~7 percent of users will hit session limits they wouldn't have before, particularly for pro tiers. If you run token-intensive background jobs, shifting them to off-peak hours will stretch your session limits further." Shihipar signs off his series of tweets by saying, “I know this was frustrating. We’re continuing to invest in scaling efficiently. I'll keep you posted on progress”. Keeping a close eye on your usage It strikes me as curious that Anthropic has let this announcement happen in this way. It’s quietly been released by one of its engineers on social media rather than coming from one of its official social accounts on X, or even via its website. I understand that a company doesn’t want to shout about bad news that might annoy customers, but this feels significant, and it’s quite possible that many Claude users will simply remain unaware of the changes. Earlier this month, Claude temporarily doubled usage rates for everyone outside peak hours. In contrast, that announcement was made via the official Claude account on X, even though the increased rates were only temporary, from March 13, 2026, through to March 28, 2026. Claude has always operated a pay-as-you-go system for getting extra usage, provided you are on a paid Claude plan (Pro, Max 5x, or Max 20x), which allows you to continue working with Claude after reaching your plan’s usage limits. Details of how to enable this can be found on the Claude website . In practical terms, the rule change means you need to start thinking more strategically about when you use your Claude account, especially since the time of day when peak hours occur varies widely by country. It also means that we have to keep a close eye on how our AI companies provide their services because the limits are not fixed anymore; they’re moving. The best business laptops for all budgets