Since its launch in July 2020, Peacock has been flying high as NBCUniversal's dedicated streaming platform, showcasing online the best shows, movies and live sports that the network has to offer. In addition to NBC staples such as SNL , The Voice and Law & Order , Peacock is also the online home to some of the sporting world's biggest events – the Olympics, Ryder Cup and Premier League soccer, to name but a few – and coverage of unmissable annual events like Macy's 4th of July Fireworks. Peacock boasts quite the roster of coverage but, as a standalone streaming platform, is currently only available in the US and its territories. That means Americans traveling overseas will not be able to stream content on their Peacock subscription like normal. Thankfully, there's a very easy way around this conundrum. Using one of the best VPN services will allow you to access Peacock streams no matter where you are in the world. Keep reading to discover how. How to watch Peacock subscriptions Peacock subscriptions are relatively affordable, with a choice of three plans to pick from. The cheapest is Peacock Select . Costing only $7.99 a month / $79.99 a year (at the time of writing), it gives you access to a huge catalog of TV shows from NBC and Bravo. To get more content, you'll need Peacock Premium ($10.99 a month / $109.99 a year), which adds all of the network's live sports and events, together with movies and original shows that are made specifically for Peacock. Paying more again gets you Peacock Premium Plus ($16.99 a month / $169.99 a year), which removes the vast majority of ads and allows you to download some content to watch offline. You also have the option to bundle up your Premium or Premium Plus plan with Apple TV (from $14.99 per month), which means you can watch the likes of Ted Lasso , The Studio and every F1 race for just a few dollars extra. You can sign up to your choice of Peacock plans here . (Image credit: Future/Jacob Krol) What is the cheapest way to get Peacock? Peacock removed its free trial some time ago and, while it sometimes features promotional offers, there are currently no ways to watch the service absolutely free. However, there are still plenty of little tricks you can try to watch Peacock for less than the usual price. For example, all Walmart+ subscriptions include access to your choice of either Peacock Premium or Paramount+. You can take up a $1 trial for 30 days, after which the Walmart+ price reverts to $12.95 a month. Pay for a whole year at $98, and that's actually cheaper than Peacock Premium on its own! Online grocery service Instacart+ includes Peacock Premium and costs only $99 per year (after a 14-day free trial), saving you $10. If you're looking for a new internet provider, Peacock Premium is included with a selection of Xfinity plans. And you can also look out for discounts if you're a student, teacher or in the military. Use a VPN to watch Peacock from abroad Why is a VPN a good option to watch Peacock from abroad? Watching Peacock online and via its app is only possible within the US and its territories. Try to use your subscription (or sign up) when outside the US, and you'll be prevented from doing so. There is a way around this, however – namely, using the best Peacock VPN . As well as letting you tap into Peacock and other streaming services you'd normally watch at home when you're overseas, their encrypted tunnels and cybersecurity smarts also protect you from online threats. What devices and platforms are supported by Peacock and NordVPN? Amazon Fire TV Android (7.0 and up) Android TV (5.1 and up) Apple TV (tvOS 15 and up) Chromecast (2nd Generation and up) iOS (15 and up) Selected Smart TVs Web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, Safari) Although you can't run NordVPN directly on other devices, such as Roku, and PlayStation and Xbox consoles, an easy workaround is running NordVPN on your smartphone or computer and setting up a hotspot. (Image credit: NBC Peacock) What shows can you watch on Peacock? There's is a breadth of content available to watch on Peacock. To start with, all tiers include all of NBC's programming – as it goes out and on demand. So that includes all of the biggest current shows from NBC itself, such as Law & Order , Saturday Night Live , Chicago Fire , and America's Got Talent , but also catalogs of episodes from its hottest properties from years gone by, like Yellowstone , The Office and 30 Rock . There are shows from more than 50 channels that you can watch live and on demand through Peacock, with Law & Crime Network, Court TV and Game Show Central lined up alongside NBC's standard channels. Upgrade to Peacock Premium, and you open up a world of live sport (more on which below), a vault of hundreds of movies, and all of the platform's original programming. Peacock Originals are available exclusively through the streamer, and recent hits have included comedies like Ted and The Paper , dramas such as All Her Fault and Those About to Die , plus reality picks The Traitors US , Love Island Games and Here Come the Irish . Are there any live sports on Peacock? If you're away from home when your favorite sport is due to broadcast on NBCUniversal channels, the Peacock app on your mobile device will let you watch it from anywhere. The Olympics and Winter Olympics are the jewel in NBC's crown when it comes to sports, with Peacock showing every minute of every event from the Games. Premier League soccer, Ryder Cup golf, Grand Slam tennis (French and US Opens), the World Athletics Championships , Tour de France cycling and Six Nations rugby are a mere sample of the other major sporting events that are exclusively available on Peacock. And, of course, NBC has the rights to show the Super Bowl every few years. The next time the Super Bowl is on Peacock will be 2030. (Image credit: Harry How/Getty Images) You may also enjoy... We test and review VPN services in the context of legal recreational uses. For example: 1. Accessing a service from another country (subject to the terms and conditions of that service). 2. Protecting your online security and strengthening your online privacy when abroad. We do not support or condone the illegal or malicious use of VPN services. Consuming pirated content that is paid-for is neither endorsed nor approved by Future Publishing.