Storage demand continues to rise as modern workflows generate increasingly large datasets and media files. While you could just buy a bigger drive, high-capacity NVMe models are getting ever pricier - but I've found a brilliant deal delivering massive capacity and fast speeds at a much more wallet-friendly price than usual. The WD_Black SN7100 NVMe SSD 4TB model is now just $626 (and was - brace yourself - $1,379.99) at Amazon . That massive 55% discount is so good, it had me checking I wasn't seeing things. This drive uses a PCIe Gen4 interface and reaches read speeds up to 7,000MB/s with write speeds up to 6,700MB/s. Those numbers translate into quick file transfers, and shorter load times. • View the full Amazon Big Spring Sale Also, take a look at our Amazon Big Spring Sale live hub . Today's top SSD deal There are also smaller capacity options available, with the 2TB version reduced from $689.99 to $374.54 and the 500GB model now $129.99 from $185.99 . The 1TB model sadly isn’t discounted. With this mode, next-generation TLC 3D NAND storage helps deliver consistent performance over time, while endurance ratings up to 2,400TBW on the 4TB model support long-term heavy use. That level of durability will be useful for anyone working with large datasets, video editing timelines, or continuous project backups. The M.2 2280 form factor means it will fit most modern desktops and laptops that support PCIe Gen4 storage. Power efficiency improvements over earlier generations also help extend battery life in portable systems, especially when handling frequent file access. Western Digital includes access to its WD_BLACK Dashboard software for Windows systems, giving visibility into drive health, firmware updates, and performance tuning tools. That's useful for making sure the drive continues to run at peak speeds across daily workloads. A 4TB Gen4 NVMe drive from a big name brand at this price level is one of the better deals I’ve seen recently, but it probably won't stay at this price for long. More of today's best Amazon Big Spring Sale deals