Elon Musk announced plans to build a giant chip factory in Austin, Texas. Speaking at an event in Austin on Saturday, Musk announced that the project, Terafab, would start off as an “advanced technology fab” meant to produce two kinds of chips to be used by Tesla and the newly merged SpaceX and xAI. One of those chips, Musk said, will be optimized for “edge and inference,” primarily to be used in Tesla’s autonomous driving ventures and Optimus humanoid robots . The second will be a high-powered chip to be used in space, on the road to Musk’s long-preached goals of turning humanity into a “galactic civilization.” At the center of that mission for now is Musk’s space-based data center plan, which has also been fueling the company’s IPO plans for later this year. Musk has been talking about the project, which he on Saturday called the “most epic chip building exercise in history by far,” for a while now, but the event was its official launch. Although he is “very grateful” to existing chip suppliers like Samsung, TSMC, and more, he said that the chip giants are not “comfortable expanding” at the maximum rate that he wants. “We need the chips. So we are going to build the Terafab,” Musk said, after sharing his aim to produce a terawatt output per year via the Terafab to address the growing power demands of AI. “We will have all of the equipment necessary to make a chip of any kind,” Musk said. “We’re really going to push the limit of physics and compute, and we are going to try a bunch of wild and crazy things.” Ultimately, Musk, who has become known for his penchant for overpromising , might really need to push at least some limits because the plan is very ambitious and likely to be incredibly expensive. The company is already planning on shelling out more than $20 billion this year, without factoring in the costs of this Terafab. That’s almost twice the amount that it spent in 2024, its most expensive year so far. Musk has been teasing these plans for a while now, and a UBS analyst estimated earlier this year that his vision for Terafab could cost the company as much as $300 billion. Chip factories are also very tough to build and construction generally takes longer in the U.S. than in Taiwan . Even acquiring the machinery could take a couple of years , let alone making the factory fully operational. Musk’s plan specifically is ambitious and would require deep expertise, which neither Musk nor the U.S. chip industry currently has. One of the few domestic chip plant construction projects in the country in roughly a decade is being helmed by the highly experienced chip giant TSMC, and even that project has reportedly been plagued with numerous issues and an eye-watering financial commitment that has been deemed “one of the most expensive undertakings on Earth,” by the New York Times.