The LG C5 is one of the best OLED TVs you can buy, offering premium-class contrast, color accuracy, and detailing paired with rich, room-filling audio. And if you've been looking to upgrade your home theater with a high-end screen, you can save $1,300 on the 65-inch LG C5 OLED TV at Best Buy, in a deal competing with Amazon's Big Spring Sale . Also: LG C5 OLED TV review The LG C5 got a few upgrades and refreshes over its predecessor, including an all-new Alpha 9 AI processor for faster app launching, better multitasking, and more accurate 4K upscaling. The 120Hz refresh rate means you'll get smooth motion in games, movies, and shows, while Dolby Vision HDR helps sharpen fine details for more lifelike images. The built-in speakers use Dolby Atmos virtual surround sound technology to help create a more immersive listening experience while streaming or gaming. Also: Amazon Spring Sale live blog 2026: Tracking the biggest price drops all week The LG C5 OLED is also a perfect choice for upgrading your gaming space, with support for both Nvidia G-Sync and AMD Freesync Premium VRR to prevent screen tearing. The dedicated gaming picture mode features automatic low-latency to improve response times as well as the ability to boost your refresh rate to 144Hz for ultra-smooth visuals during fast-paced gameplay. Don't have a console? No problem with cloud gaming via the Xbox GamePass app, which allows you to play the latest triple-A titles with nothing but a controller and a Wi-Fi connection. How I rated this deal LG is one of the top names in televisions, especially when it comes to OLED models, and the C5 is no exception. With some of the best picture and audio quality you can get in a consumer-grade screen, it also offers a host of smart features to turn your home theater into the ultimate entertainment hub. And at almost 50% off, it's a deal so good, it almost feels like stealing. Amazon's Big Spring Sale runs March 25-31, 2026. Show more Deals are subject to sell out or expire anytime, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to save and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com . Show more We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision. At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2026 Show more