Kyle Kucharski/ZDNET Charleston-based Twelve South makes functional charging solutions with premium components, and the HiRise 2 Deluxe is at the top of the list. This sleek, MagSafe device is a desktop staple for me, charging two devices simultaneously via a 15W Qi2 magnetic charger on the top and a second 5W wireless charger on the base. Although originally designed for iPhones, the main charger is compatible with any Qi2 phone, and the base charger works with any wireless-charging phone or AirPods. Also: Amazon Spring Sale live blog 2026: Tracking the biggest price drops all week The result is a space-saving design that goes vertical with two devices on a desk, nightstand, or console, with a minimalist, vegan leather construction in either black, white, or blue -- the latter which is further discounted to $36. Discounted for Amazon's Big Spring Sale , this is a steal on a product that's regularly priced at $80, and the lowest price I've seen it go yet. I've had the HiRise 2 Deluxe on my desk for almost years now, with no need to seek out anything else. It offers a natural spot for my phone that's off of the desktop, and the 70-degree angle props the phone at a natural angle to allow me to see notifications and incoming calls. With recent improvements to the focus settings in iOS26, I can put the phone in standby mode, and only worry about the most important notifications popping up during work hours, instead of being notified about every random message or email. Review: HiRise Deluxe 2 Regularly priced at $80, it isn't exactly cheap for a charger, but at this price, it's definitely worth springing for. Plus, I can personally attest to its durability, as this is a device that can be banged around a big and still look good. It's worth investing in a premium charging solution that you pay for once, instead of constantly throwing money at cheap cables from questionable suppliers. The device keeps it simple with one single USB-C port on the back and can connect either directly to a power strip or outlet or a docking station. The Twelve South HiRise 2 Deluxe is my go-to desktop charger, offering a minimalist solution made from premium materials. How I rated this deal I've rated this deal a 4/5 since it's 40% off the regular price, a fantastic deal for a device that commands a higher regular price point. The Glacial Blue colorway is an additional ~$10 off, however -- down to $35.99 if you want to save even more. Amazon's Big Spring Sale went live on March 25th, and will last until March 31st, 2026. Show more Deals are subject to sell out or expire anytime, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to save and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com . Show more We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision. At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2026 Show more