Lance Whitney/ZDNET Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google. In January, I made a reading goal for 2026, and I plan to keep it. I've found that the key to reading frequently is to always have a book on hand, or in this case, an iPad. Also: The best Amazon Big Spring Sale deals: Live updates Not all iPads are made for reading, but the iPad Mini is the best choice due to its smaller and portable size. Right now, you can get $100 off the iPad Mini during Amazon's Big Spring Sale, making the A17 Pro model with 128GB of storage cost just $400. The iPad Mini has an 8.3-inch liquid retina display with 326 ppi, which is a higher resolution than the Kindle. As a result, text looks especially sharp on screen, and Apple's True Tone technology (which adjusts the color and intensity of your display to match the ambient light) ensures you have a natural reading experience. Apple's anti-reflective screen coating also reduces the likelihood of catching a glare when reading outside on a sunny day. And, since it's a traditional tablet, you can read articles or blog posts on the web, download the Kindle app and read traditionally, or download other apps to borrow library books or find independent authors. Review: Apple iPad Mini (7th generation) With the iPad Mini , you're also getting Apple's powerful A17 Pro chip, an ultra-wide 12 MP front camera, support for the Apple Pencil Pro to take notes, Apple Intelligence capabilities, and more. Snag Apple's smallest tablet at a small price during Amazon's Big Spring Sale this week. How I rated this deal According to ZDNET's deal-rating system, this 20% off deal is a 3/5 deal. Usually, Apple products rarely go on sale, in which case we would rate this a 4/5 deal, but iPads are the one Apple device that you can almost always find a discount on. Deals are subject to sell-out or expire at any time, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to save and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com . Show more We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. Last year, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision. At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2026 Show more