Adam Breeden/ZDNET I got to try out the Samsung S95F OLED at the ZDNET testing lab, and was very impressed with the high-quality picture and audio that the TV is able to create. And if you've been looking to upgrade your home theater with one of the best TVs you can buy, you can get the 65-inch Samsung S95F for $800 off during Amazon's Big Spring Sale. Also: Samsung S95F review The updated OLED panel features a matte display for better visibility in bright rooms, and with near-perfect black levels, you'll get unparalleled contrast that makes details and colors pop. The 120Hz refresh rate gives you smooth motion for live sports, streaming movies and shows, and console gaming; and with VRR support, you can boost the refresh rate to 165Hz to all but eliminate motion blur. Also: The best Samsung TVs you can buy Along with support for Dolby Atmos virtual surround sound, the S95F OLED uses Samsung's Object Tracking Sound technology which creates spatial audio that follows the on-screen action for a more immersive experience. This makes it perfect for hosting movie nights with friends, online gaming, and watch parties for sports events. It also features an Active Voice Amplifier feature that automatically boosts dialogue volume so you never miss a line. And with integrated sensors that monitor your space's ambient sound levels, the Samsung S95F can automatically adjust sound settings to give you a custom-tailored listening experience. Also: Amazon Spring Sale live blog 2026: Tracking the biggest price drops all week How I rated this deal While this isn't the steepest markdown I've ever seen on a Samsung TV, even an OLED model, it's still a great deal on a high-end screen. With support for Dolby Atmos and object tracking sound, HDR10+ processing, and a max refresh rate of 165Hz, you'll get incredible picture and audio for everything from live sports to console gaming. That's why I gave this deal a 3/5 Editor's rating. Amazon's Big Spring Sale runs March 25-31, 2026. Show more Deals are subject to sell out or expire anytime, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to save and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com . Show more We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision. At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2026 Show more