Adam Breeden/ZDNET The TCL QM8 is a top contender for one of the best TVs we've tested at the ZDNET lab, offering premium-quality picture and sound along with a host of smart features at a fraction of the cost of an OLED screen. And right now during Amazon's Big Spring Sale event, you can save $500 on the 65-inch version, bringing the price just under $1,000. Also: TCL QM8K review The updated Mini LED panel uses improved backlighting and micro-lenses to prevent blooming and "halo" effects in dark scenes. It has a 144Hz refresh rate for smoother motion while streaming movies and shows, live sports, and console gaming. And speaking of console gaming, the TCL QM8 supports game accelerator VRR technology to boost the refresh rate as high as 288Hz to help prevent screen tearing and stuttering during online matches and solo offline play. Also: The best 98-inch TVs you can buy Support for Dolby Vision HDR means you'll get enhanced detailing, darker contrast, and bolder colors that make everything from the latest blockbuster films to retro sitcoms look their best. A peak brightness of 5,000 nits means you'll get great visibility in bright rooms, sunlight, and harsh overhead lighting. And to perfectly complement the TCL QM8 picture quality, the integrated speakers are designed by Bang & Olufsen to deliver rich, clean sound that's enhanced by Dolby Atmos virtual 3D audio processing. Also: Amazon Spring Sale live blog 2026: Tracking the biggest price drops all week How I rated this deal The TCL QM8 is one of our favorite lab-tested TVs, offering picture quality that rivals OLED models as well as rich, clean audio with Dolby Atmos support and speakers designed by Bang & Olufsen. It also has a lineup of gaming features like VRR support and automatic low-latency to give you smoother gameplay. That's why I gave this deal a 4/5 Editor's rating. Amazon's Big Spring Sale runs March 25-31, 2026. Show more Deals are subject to sell out or expire anytime, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to save and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com . Show more We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision. At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2026 Show more