Shortages are coming for the CPU industry, and we can expect both Intel and AMD to raise their prices in turn, according to Nikkei Asia . Intel reportedly told its CPU clients last week that a price rise is imminent, and AMD is likely to follow suit, thanks to increased focus on server CPU production and a dwindling supply of new consumer chips on store shelves. Nikkei tips an average price hike of 10% to 15%, potentially higher, citing multiple sources with direct knowledge of the matter. In 2026, any electronic component you plug into your PC— memory , storage , GPUs —is in short supply, and anything you do get your hands on is far over MSRP. Unfortunately, CPUs appear to be equally affected now, despite AMD and Intel lowering some CPU prices to better compete with one another's new offerings. (Credit: Joseph Maldonado/PCMag) Intel's Arrow Lake refresh CPUs, like the 270K Plus and 250K Plus, have demonstrated impressive gaming performance, and their pricing is quite aggressive. At just under $300, the 270K Plus is Intel's best gaming CPU ever and only a stone's throw behind AMD's $400+ 9800X3D . While AMD is preparing its own refreshed Zen 5 CPUs as a counter, we've seen price reductions on its 12-core 9900X3D and 7900X CPUs, and the 9600X dropped to around $180 just before the new Arrow Lake CPUs were released, as VideoCardz notes. Recommended by Our Editors Still, Nikkei reports that AMD and Intel have told their clients that CPU price increases will hit before the end of March and run into April. Plus orders that were previously fulfilled within a week or two have recently stretched to eight to 12 weeks due to shortages. Although the price spikes of 2025 haven't quite been replicated in 2026, and there have been some signs of stabilization, the overall shortages remain unsolved. Until supply catches up with the unprecedented demand from last year, we're unlikely to see prices for any of the most important consumer PC components return to normal. Get Our Best Stories! Your Daily Dose of Our Top Tech News Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! About Our Expert Jon Martindale Contributor Experience Jon Martindale is a tech journalist from the UK, with 20 years of experience covering all manner of PC components and associated gadgets. He's written for a range of publications, including ExtremeTech, Digital Trends, Forbes, U.S. News & World Report, and Lifewire, among others. When not writing, he's a big board gamer and reader, with a particular habit of speed-reading through long manga sagas. Jon covers the latest PC components, as well as how-to guides on everything from how to take a screenshot to how to set up your cryptocurrency wallet. He particularly enjoys the battles between the top tech giants in CPUs and GPUs, and tries his best not to take sides. Jon's gaming PC is built around the iconic 7950X3D CPU, with a 7900XTX backing it up. That's all the power he needs to play lightweight indie and casual games, as well as more demanding sim titles like Kerbal Space Program. He uses a pair of Jabra Active 8 earbuds and a SteelSeries Arctis Pro wireless headset, and types all day on a Logitech G915 mechanical keyboard. Read Full Bio