Frustrated by Windows 11? Microsoft is vowing to focus on quality in future OS releases, prioritizing performance and reining in Copilot . Pavan Davuluri, Microsoft's President for Windows and Devices, announced this "commitment to quality" in a Friday blog post and email to users. The plan calls for bolstering the OS's "performance, reliability, and well-crafted experiences” this year, Davuluri says. "These areas have meaningful impact on how you experience Windows: how fast it starts and responds, how stable it is under real workloads, and how consistent and thoughtful the experience feels." PC users will be happy to know that one goal is to reduce Windows 11's resource usage to free up more capacity. Another priority is “less noise, less distraction, and more control across the OS.” (Credit: Microsoft) Surprisingly, the blog post makes little mention of AI. Instead, Davuluri merely says the company wants “to be thoughtful about how and where we bring AI into Windows.” "You will see us be more intentional about how and where Copilot integrates across Windows, focusing on experiences that are genuinely useful and well‑crafted. As part of this, we are reducing unnecessary Copilot entry points, starting with apps like Snipping Tool, Photos, Widgets, and Notepad," he said. Changes will roll out in preview for Windows Insiders in March and April. (Credit: Microsoft) Davuluri made the announcement months after he faced backlash for tweeting that “Windows is evolving into an agentic OS." Users argued that the company was putting AI over basic Windows 11 performance. Not helping matters was a January Windows 11 release that prevented PCs from booting up or going to sleep. Recommended by Our Editors Last month, Davuluri indicated he was taking the criticism seriously. Microsoft is also facing increased competition from Apple; it recently released the affordable MacBook Neo , which has been a hit among consumers and reviewers. In his Friday blog post, Davuluri noted, “Over the past several months, the team and I have spent a great deal of time analyzing your feedback. What came through was the voice of people who care deeply about Windows and want it to be better.” (Credit: Microsoft) In the near-term, Davuluri previewed several enhancements rolling out to beta users in the Windows Insider Program, which is open to anyone. They include a faster, more reliable File Explorer, the ability to reposition the Windows 11 taskbar to the top or sides of the screen, and greater control over widget customization in the OS. Get Our Best Stories! Your Daily Dose of Our Top Tech News Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! About Our Expert Michael Kan Senior Reporter Experience I've been a journalist for over 15 years. I got my start as a schools and cities reporter in Kansas City and joined PCMag in 2017, where I cover satellite internet services, cybersecurity, PC hardware, and more. I'm currently based in San Francisco, but previously spent over five years in China, covering the country's technology sector. Since 2020, I've covered the launch and explosive growth of SpaceX's Starlink satellite internet service, writing 600+ stories on availability and feature launches, but also the regulatory battles over the expansion of satellite constellations, fights with rival providers like AST SpaceMobile and Amazon, and the effort to expand into satellite-based mobile service. I've combed through FCC filings for the latest news and driven to remote corners of California to test Starlink's cellular service. I also cover cyber threats, from ransomware gangs to the emergence of AI-based malware. Earlier this year, the FTC forced Avast to pay consumers $16.5 million for secretly harvesting and selling their personal information to third-party clients, as revealed in my joint investigation with Motherboard. I also cover the PC graphics card market. Pandemic-era shortages led me to camp out in front of a Best Buy to get an RTX 3000. I'm now following how President Trump's tariffs will affect the industry. I'm always eager to learn more, so please jump in the comments with feedback and send me tips. Read Full Bio