You don’t have a huge number of choices when it comes to your computer's operating system, but the one you pick has wide-ranging consequences. PCMag has been testing operating systems since the dawn of personal computing in the '80s, so we have the experience to inform your decision. The four OSes here are the most popular options: Windows 11, macOS, ChromeOS, and Ubuntu. Each has distinct strengths and weaknesses. macOS and Windows support the widest range of hardware peripherals and software, ChromeOS is lightweight and runs on inexpensive computers , and the Linux-based Ubuntu embraces the open-source model. Read on for a summary of each desktop operating system (in order of usage share ), followed by links to our in-depth reviews and advice on how to decide which is best for you. Deeper Dive: Our Top Tested Picks EDITORS' NOTE March 23, 2026: With this update, our lineup of recommended desktop operating systems remains unchanged. We have vetted the existing picks for currency and availability. We added information about new features in Windows 11, the release of Ubuntu 25.10 Questing Quokka, and Gemini integrations in ChromeOS. Best for Software Compatibility and Gaming Pros & Cons Beautiful, more consistent design Great window layout options Strong gaming features Nifty Copilot AI capabilities Good integration with smartphones Start menu is less informative than in Windows 10 Doesn't work as well on touch tablets Beneath its glossy surface, which takes design cues from ChromeOS and macOS, Windows 11 remains quite similar to Windows 10 , which is in its final year of extended support . Windows 11 gets you nearly the same wide selection of computer hardware, software, and video games. Windows 11 requires a PC with a modern CPU and a security chip called a TPM , but it will still technically run on most PCs from the last decade. So far, it has embraced generative AI more than the other mainstream OSes, thanks to Copilot . Windows 11 offers some new capabilities not available in Windows 10, including enhanced security , improved HDR display support , and Snap Layouts for organizing program windows on the desktop. It also includes an improved File Explorer with a tabbed interface, a Live Captions speech-to-text feature that works with any audio playing on the PC, and new video editing and sound recording apps. Windows 11's 2025 update was a small one, as Microsoft now focuses on continuously delivering new Windows 11 features throughout the year. The OS gained many new features in 2025 , including Quick Machine recovery for resolving PC issues and a sidebar for accessing your phone's features alongside the Start menu. Copilot in Windows also got several new capabilities, including Copilot Vision , PC Search , and wake-word functionality. A new class of machines, called Copilot+ PCs , run Windows 11 with extra AI features, such as Click to Do , Recall , and semantic file search . Copilot+ PCs feature on-board AI-processing NPUs , with hardware options from AMD, Intel, and Qualcomm available. Pros & Cons Free Elegant, cohesive interface that's easy to navigate Flexible and lightweight installation options Smooth performance in testing Extensive customizability Some major third-party apps remain unavailable Doesn't come installed on many devices Can be frustrating to troubleshoot issues Ubuntu, one of the most popular Linux distros , is completely free and based mostly on open-source software. It's not the product of a giant tech company that's out to lock you into its ecosystem, and you never need to sign in with an account. Some manufacturers offer PCs designed with Linux in mind , but you can install Ubuntu (from Canonical Ltd.) on nearly any Windows PC with an Intel or AMD CPU. You can even run the operating system from a live USB stick, averting the need to fully install it. Modern Chromebooks, Macs, and ARM-powered Windows laptops might require experimental builds of Ubuntu or other Linux distributions, so proceed with caution and consider running Linux in a virtual machine or turning to the Windows Subsystem for Linux instead. The latest version of Ubuntu is Questing Quokka (version 25.10). It uses the Linux kernel version 6.17, which enables support for new hardware devices and delivers other low-level improvements. It also updates the interface to Gnome 49. Finally, 25.10 introduces a new Loupe image viewer and Ptyxis terminal emulator. The OS includes the App Center app store, consolidated settings, expandable notifications, a file manager with search, and support for Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Active Directory). You can install apps in several ways, including by adding software repositories. Ubuntu features a pleasing interface and a comprehensive selection of default applications, including browsers, email clients, media players, and office suites. Unlike macOS, it supports touch input (though not as fully as Windows). Linux systems are highly customizable, with many distros available. Those distros come in different flavors—Kubuntu, Lubuntu, Ubuntu Budgie, Ubuntu Mate, and Xubuntu are all flavors of Ubuntu. They differ in interface designs, preconfigured apps, and settings. While Ubuntu doesn't include any AI features in its default desktop environment, Linux is becoming the platform of choice for powerful local AI-focused workloads. For example, Nvidia's $3,999 DGX Spark mini PC ships with a customized version of Ubuntu. A drawback is that Linux requires a bit more tech-savvy than the other choices here. If you're squeamish about ever seeing a command line, choose another OS. Another drawback is that support for hardware peripherals is behind that of Windows, macOS, and even ChromeOS. Additionally, you can't use major desktop apps, such as Microsoft 365 and Photoshop , though web versions of such programs are increasingly available and capable. Linux supports most major browsers, including Google Chrome, Firefox, and Microsoft Edge. PC gaming is a surprisingly bright spot on Linux these days, too. You can install the Linux version of Steam and play many Windows PC games thanks to Valve's Proton compatibility layer. However, Windows 11 still delivers the best compatibility with the widest range of PC games. Ubuntu strives to be as secure and stable as possible. That's undoubtedly why Linux powers so many servers, which require a high level of uptime. Ubuntu includes built-in security protections, and Canonical provides regular security patches and updates. Beyond Ubuntu, other Linux distributions are worth a look, including Linux Mint . Best for Students and Casual Users Pros & Cons Works on low-cost computers Good security with automatic updates Runs Android apps Fast boot-up speeds Tight integrations with Android phones and Google services Doesn't run traditional desktop apps Still some app store and file location confusion Requires a Google account and buy-in to Google services Google's desktop operating system initially provided a web browser and little else. The idea was for it to be an entirely cloud-powered system that ran only web apps and used Google Drive to store all your data. ChromeOS has moved beyond that now, with Android apps from the Google Play Store being its main source of software. It offers true desktop features like file folders for local files, Gemini AI features, and tight integration with Android phones . A variety of inexpensive Chromebook laptops and Chromeboxes (the desktop version) run ChromeOS. You might still be able to find some all-in-one Chromebase devices, but most manufacturers are promoting Chromebook Plus models—laptops with sufficient CPU power, storage, and screen resolutions to run more demanding software.  Chromebook Plus computers can utilize unique Google technology, such as Magic Eraser (of Pixel commercial fame), and add special effects to Google Meet video calls. Additionally, they can handle an impressive web version of Photoshop. The newest type of Chromebooks includes an NPU for AI processing (see below). The operating system's interface is clear and minimal. You get a shelf that's similar to Windows' taskbar, and the program launcher and settings work well. Google continues to add conveniences, such as Android phone tethering, picture-in-picture video, improved offline functionality, and multiple virtual desktops. Its clever Tote feature keeps recent documents and images at the ready. The OS supports both touch and stylus input, and works with many printer models (although not as many as macOS and Windows). Google recently added more generative AI features to ChromeOS , such as a Gemini app, live transcriptions with translation, the ability to summarize text, and to suggest actions for text on-screen, even if the text is in an image, with the Capture Text feature. The OS's Welcome Recap can get you quickly back to your tasks whenever you resume using the computer after a break. ChromeOS has two distinct app stores, the Chrome Web Store and Google Play, which have some of the same entries. Some Android apps behave inconsistently on Chrome, but the situation is improving, and Google seems keen on making Google Play the main place you get apps. Google is working on a new operating system called Aluminium , which will combine Android and ChromeOS . However, it appears that existing Chromebook devices might continue running ChromeOS . Google hasn't revealed all the details about Aluminium yet. You won't find advanced applications on ChromeOS, such as pro-level media editing software tools, which generally target macOS and Windows. Google has, however, developed a comprehensive suite of apps and services for the education market. If you're a student or someone who seeks simplicity, ChromeOS might be right for you. If you want to play the latest AAA video games, edit videos and photos with professional-grade software, or run advanced hardware like VR headsets or 3D printers , choose another OS. Get Our Best Stories! Love All Things Apple? Sign up for our Weekly Apple Brief for the latest news, reviews, tips, and more delivered right to your inbox. Sign up for our Weekly Apple Brief for the latest news, reviews, tips, and more delivered right to your inbox. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! Buying Guide: The Ultimate OS Showdown: Windows vs. macOS vs. Linux vs. ChromeOS What Is an Operating System? An operating system is the software that enables your computer to function. It provides an interface between the hardware, the software running on the hardware, and you. Modern desktop OSes include slick user interfaces and loads of utilities, tools, and preloaded apps that let you do a lot without even installing anything. Those apps include calendars, email clients, music players, photo editors , text editors, video editors , web browsers , and more. An operating system also includes tools to keep your computer running smoothly, safely, and free from malware. Most include built-in security features and support for VPNs . Much of an operating system's security and stability relies on an update process that ensures the system receives timely fixes to address hardware and software compatibility issues and vulnerabilities. Operating systems also need to interact with other devices and services. With smartphones being such a dominant part of modern life, a good desktop operating system must work in concert with those devices. Another prevalent theme is "the cloud," and most operating systems integrate with cloud services for tasks such as file sharing and system backup. AI has also been a focus lately, with Windows offering Copilot and macOS introducing Apple Intelligence . These services do research for you, provide summaries of large text blocks, and even create images based on your text prompts. Chromebook Plus devices are also getting into the AI act with Gemini integrations and features like Help Me Write, Text Capture , Generate Image, and Generative AI wallpaper, as well as video call backgrounds. AI features that utilize local computer resources are also gaining popularity. Copilot+ PCs have plenty of such abilities. Apple Intelligence helps protect your data when it needs to send it to the cloud via its Private Cloud Compute feature. Ubuntu is open-source software based on free and open-source Debian, GNU , Gnome, and Linux code, while ChromeOS is based on Google's open-source ChromiumOS project (which is, in turn, based on Linux). This means that volunteer coders can contribute to the code, and third parties can release their own versions. ChromeOS is Google's proprietary version of that code base, which includes extras such as its Android subsystem and cellular support. How to Choose an Operating System In our linked reviews of the four aforementioned operating systems, we take into account the following criteria, which can help inform your choice of OS: Available software, including games, media editors, and productivity apps Included apps and utilities Interface design and windowing niceties Mobile and cloud integrations Range of hardware options and peripherals Stability, security, and updates If you need to run software that works on just one of these operating systems, your choice is obvious. You can sometimes circumvent this issue by running a virtual machine (see the next section), but running native apps typically yields a superior experience. For example, if Adobe Premiere Pro is not an option, and you want to use Final Cut Pro , your only choice is macOS. If you want to run AAA video games , stick with Windows. The same holds for peripherals. Your 3D printer and VR headset might have drivers compatible only with one type of system. Recommended by Our Editors Can Your Computer Run Multiple OSes? If you need to use software that's compatible only with a particular OS (usually Windows or macOS), multiboot setups and virtualization software are options. For example, you can run Windows on a Mac inside a virtual machine. If you have an older Intel-based Mac, you can dual-boot with Apple's Boot Camp, but this doesn't work on modern Macs with silicon hardware. You can also create a Linux partition on a Windows PC and boot into it whenever you want. Running macOS outside of an actual Mac computer isn't possible—unless you're comfortable jumping through the technical hoops required to create a Hackintosh . You can run ChromeOS on an Intel or AMD-powered Windows PC or Mac on a live ChromeOS Flex USB stick, but it isn't designed for Windows PCs with Arm-based Qualcomm Snapdragon X hardware or modern Macs with M-series chips. Dig Deeper Into OSes For all our related content, head to our operating systems page, and for a head-to-head comparison of the two leading choices, check out our comparison of macOS and Windows .