For professional creators, a laptop is more than just a machine—it’s a business investment. And while the Dell XPS 14 has always been an enticing option for creatives, it’s even more so in 2026 with its sleekified design and hardware upgrades. The revived Copilot+ PC is thinner and lighter than ever, its glass OLED display is nothing short of inspiring, and the new Intel Panther Lake chips push the XPS 14’s processing speeds and AI capabilities to the next level. The high-end laptop also has plenty of headroom for future AI advancements, making it a smart investment. XPS 14 Good looks, premium performance and fantastic battery life Precision Design: Built for the Creative Lifestyle The ultra-portability of the XPS 14 is ideal for photographers, content creators, and designers who prefer not to be stuck at a desk. This is Dell’s thinnest 14-inch laptop yet—measuring only 14.6 millimeters thick—and it weighs just 3 pounds. Slip it into your backpack and go. You’ll barely know it’s there. The XPS 14’s durable build quality also passes muster. The outer panels and base cover are constructed of 75% recycled machined aluminum, paired with a Gorilla Glass 3 display to protect it from bumpy rides and accidental drops. A hinge that allows easy one-handed lid opening comes in handy on airplanes and in crowded cafes. Panther Lake Performance Keeps Pace With Your Vision The XPS 14 also packs potent creative power under its hood. The new Panther Lake generation of Intel processors is engineered for superior AI workloads and has been tagged by PCMag with one of our Best of CES awards for its power-efficient processing and improved graphics performance. Considering the XPS 14 is also a Copilot+ PC, the on-device AI capabilities are a game-changer for thirsty creators who want to streamline workflows and meet deadlines faster. Access your local AI assistant: Hit the Copilot button for instant, on-device brainstorming and image generation—no cloud required Max out your AI workflows: Leverage the Panther Lake SoC and 50 TOPS NPU to power through 3D rendering and your most intense AI tasks Accelerate your graphics: Experience 50% faster performance with Intel Arc graphics and 12 Xe cores for butter-smooth video editing and rendering Crush demanding Adobe apps: Power through Lightroom and Photoshop with cutting-edge LPDDR5x-9600MT RAM and high-speed M.2 PCIe storage 14-Inch InfinityEdge Display for High-End Editing Creative professionals rely on a high-quality screen for color accuracy and video work. The new XPS 14 is a clear winner here, whether you opt for the 2,880-by-1,800-pixel OLED glass touch screen or the matte 1920×1200 non-touch LCD panel. Both feature a 120Hz variable refresh rate for smooth visuals, ultra-precise video editing, and power efficiency. The tandem OLED display offers high color accuracy (100% DCI-P3) and the superior hues and deep contrasts that OLED panels are known for. It also doesn’t reflect as much light as you’d expect, making it ideal for photographers, videographers, and designers who don’t want the glare. Get Our Best Stories! Your Daily Dose of Our Top Tech News Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! If you’re looking for an ultraportable that can keep up with your creative workload and demanding AI asks, the Dell XPS 14 is in it for the long term. It’s built from a solid chunk of machined aluminum , its hinges are press-fit to ensure they last, and the Gorilla Glass 3 protects it while you’re on the move. The XPS 14 also has headroom for future AI capabilities. Not only does the machine’s silicon and NPU exceed Microsoft’s Copilot+ requirements, but it’s also been tested to work optimally with Adobe and popular creative software around the world. WiFi 7 and Bluetooth 6.0 have your back when it comes to next-generation wireless speeds. Overall, the Dell XPS 14 is an AI-ready and future-proof Copilot+ PC that can handle tasks usually reserved for a chunkier workstation. If you’re a creative looking for a sleek ultraportable that’s also a solid investment , look no further. Dell XPS 14 FAQs Is the Dell XPS 14 worth the price for creators? The XPS 14’s hardware has headroom for future AI capabilities , making it a smart investment. Intel’s Panther Lake chips exceed Microsoft’s Copilot+ requirements, and WiFi 7 and Bluetooth 6.0 offer next-generation wireless speeds. What makes the XPS 14 better for video editing? The Dell XPS 14 features Intel Arc graphics and 12 Xe cores , delivering 50% faster graphics performance over previous generations for butter-smooth video editing. Additionally, the striking OLED touch screen offers a 120Hz variable refresh rate for power efficiency. How durable is the Dell XPS 14? The XPS 14 is built from a solid chunk of machined aluminum, its hinges are press-fit to ensure they last, and the Gorilla Glass 3 protects it while you’re on the move. It’s also tested for spill-resistance. Does the XPS 14 support color-accurate work? Yes. The Dell XPS 14’s 2,880-by-1,800-pixel OLED glass touch screen offers high color accuracy (100% DCI-P3) and superior hues and contrasts. It doesn’t reflect much light, making it ideal for photographers, videographers, and designers. Can the XPS 14 handle heavy multitasking? Yes. The Dell XPS 14’s AI-ready Intel Panther Lake silicon, baked-in Copilot capabilities, cutting-edge M.2 PCIe SSD, and up to LPDDR5x-9600MT RAM are up to any task. Seamlessly toggle between multiple windows, projects, and apps.