When I purchased a Tesla Model 3 in 2018, it was the ultimate get for a tech enthusiast like me. Elon Musk's company was changing the landscape for electric cars, as Americans in select pockets of the country slowly warmed to the idea of ditching their gas-guzzlers. Since then, however, the company has gone through many ups and downs , and in January, it announced plans to stop making the Model S and Y to focus on autonomy. For some, the charm of Musk's gadget-on-wheel has faded. That said, the performance of an EV is hard to beat. The ultra-quiet driving experience feels luxurious, and you can't beat the convenience of "filling up" at home. Even with the demise of the federal EV tax credit , I'm sticking with battery-powered vehicles. Here are some of the non-Tesla EVs I'm considering. Some Basic Considerations: Charging and Price By far the most important aspect of an electric vehicle is charging. As I’m considering a new vehicle, the primary feature I’m looking for is a North American Charging Standard (NACS) port. This is the charging standard used by Tesla and, increasingly, all new EVs. Automakers began moving from the Combined Charging System (CCS) to NACS in recent years after Tesla opened its Superchargers to non-Tesla vehicles . So, having a NACS port means far more on-the-go charging options without the hassle of an adapter. But it also knocks out options like the Polestar 4 and the current Honda Prologue , even though they might otherwise be tempting options. It's easy to window shop with an unlimited budget, but for practicality's sake, I think it makes sense to consider options under $50,000. A vehicle should have modern connectivity so it can connect to and be controlled from a phone. That’s not too much to ask for, is it? While all these models should be available in 2026, they’re divided between those available today and those coming this calendar year. The Current Options Hyundai Ioniq 5 in silver (Credit: Hyundai) Hyundai Ioniq 5 (2026) Hyundai hit it pretty big with its intial release of its Ioniq line. The futuristic stylings have hints of retro designs that seem to be popular with consumers at first glance. The 2026 version of this SUV-like hatchback features a built-in NACS port, making it a strong contender. Hyundai’s Bluelink+ app can remotely start and stop charging, and the EV supports digital keys for Apple Wallet, Google Wallet, and Samsung Wallet, so you can share keys and revoke access instantly. Wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto support come standard. The vehicle starts at $35,000 for the SE Standard Trim and has an estimated range of 245 miles. The SE version starts at $37,500 and bumps the estimated range up to 318 miles. Get Our Best Stories! Your Daily Dose of Our Top Tech News Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! Kia EV6 (2025) Kia EV6 (Credit: Kia) The Kia EV6 ( Light Long Range RWD ) has over 300 miles of range and starts at $46,000. The vehicle is more of a sedan than a crossover, but it still offers a tow hitch with a 2,700-pound tow rating. It should be able to handle some light adventures while also being an option for road trips and school pickups. The vehicle can perform over-the-air software updates, includes wireless CarPlay and Android Auto, and even sports a Wi-Fi hotspot option with a subscription. The Kia app supports unlocking the car from your phone, sharing digital keys, controlling temperature, and assisting with charging. Of course, Kia will try to upsell you on things like access to Netflix and YouTube or licensed superhero themes. Toyota bZ XLE (2026) Toyota bZ XLE in black (Credit: Toyota) Toyota has been noticeably absent from the electric vehicle space, largely preferring to stick with its hybrids. But the latest bZ XLE seems like a worthy consideration, with over 300 miles of range in certain configurations for just under $40,000. The Toyota app offers remote connection for the basics and includes a three-year trial subscription. That does make me a little nervous that the company might charge for those functions later on. There is wireless CarPlay and Android Auto, as well as remote software updates and service requests. Recommended by Our Editors Upcoming 2026 Models (Credit: Rivian) Rivian R2 (Mid-2026) The most obvious replacement for a Tesla, specifically the Model Y, is the Rivian R2 , a smaller version of the R1S . The base R2 model should get over 300 miles of range and retail for $45,000, nearly $20,000 less than the R1S. Unfortunately, Rivian has announced that the lowest option won't be out until 2027. Unlike the R1S, the R2 is small enough to comfortably fit in most garages. Plus, it has all the niceties that Rivian offers on the technology side, like remote controls. There are streaming music options and other media features, but don't be surprised when you don't see CarPlay and Android Auto on board. If you can afford a vehicle closer to $60K, then the first run of R2 models will be coming around June . BMW iX3 (Summer 2026) (Credit: BMW) BMW skirts the "under $50,000" consideration slightly, but the company also ranks highest in PCMag’s Readers' Choice survey for electric vehicles . The iX3 50 will have a starting price of around $60,000 and can offer up to 400 miles of range in different trims. The good news for people who aren't in a rush is that future versions planned for 2027 could bring the price under $55,000. If you're willing to bump up the price a little bit for a BMW, you may also want to check out the Volvo EX60 , which is very comparable. Kia EV3 (Mid-2026) (Credit: Kia) The Kia EV3 might be a catalyst vehicle for the US market if people like its boxy stylings. It's set to debut sometime in mid-2026, starting under $40,000. But you should still get over 300 miles of range, with early projections somewhere over 350 miles. The EV3 will have similarities to the EV6 and EV9, but it won't be identical. Beyond the more compact size, it may charge a little slower, too. Even so, the value for this vehicle looks to be off the charts. Which EV Makes the Most Sense for Me? Reviewing the EVs on the market made me realize that there still isn't a perfect, one-to-one alternative for Model Y owners looking to move beyond Tesla. Rivian is certainly the most attractive option because of its commitment to a full tech stack and connectivity niceties . However, Kia and Hyundai's reasonable prices, range estimates, and overall design probably make the most sense for me. Especially with Honda exiting the EV space . We'll see if 2026 brings any attractive EV surprises that change that equation, but so far, it looks like a race between Kia and Hyundai. About Our Expert Experience I’ve contributed to PCMag since 2019, covering Apple, electric vehicles, and lots of other consumer electronics. If a gadget plugs into a wall or uses a battery, there’s a good chance I’ve tested it and have some thoughts about its place in our daily lives. I write featured articles, how-to guides, and daily news. I got my first taste of writing about technology for Fast Company in 2013, mostly how it intersected with the music industry. Since then I’ve written for dozens of publications and explored all other facets of service journalism, from reviews to buying guides. At one point, I took a break from journalism for a few years to work at a technology startup and then an industry Goliath, both valuable experiences in understanding how the business of tech works from top to bottom. Read Full Bio