OpenAI is closing Sora just months after signing a $1 billion licensing agreement with Disney, bringing an abrupt end to the controversial video-generation tool. The ChatGPT maker said that it was “saying goodbye” to Sora less than four months after signing the agreement, which would have allowed more than 200 of the entertainment group’s characters to appear in the app. “To everyone who created with Sora, shared it, and built a community around it: thank you. What you made with Sora mattered, and we know this news is disappointing,” the company said on X. The first version of Sora was launched in December 2024, and an updated version was released in September 2025 alongside an app enabling users to create videos through simple prompts. OpenAI said the app had been downloaded more than a million times in less than five days. Users could create almost anything, whether that was dog astronauts chasing tennis balls in space, clips inspired by Manga cartoons, or hyper-realistic videos of celebrities and historical figures. However, the app attracted a lot of controversy. Questions were raised about whether copyrighted material was used to train the model, while academics warned that it could lead to the proliferation of deepfakes and “AI slop”. Shortly after the app was launched, OpenAI prevented Sora from creating deepfake videos of public figures who had died, such as Robin Williams and Martin Luther King, following requests from the families. Bryan Cranston, the Breaking Bad actor, also criticised the AI company after his likeness was reproduced on Sora without his permission. OpenAI said this was “unintentional”, but confirmed it had “strengthened guardrails” around the replication of individuals who had not explicitly opted-in to the platform. The Disney deal, agreed in December 2025, was widely seen as a significant moment in the often tense relationship between AI and the creative industries. Disney was the first major studio to license parts of its catalogue to OpenAI. Disney said: “As the nascent AI field advances rapidly, we respect OpenAI’s decision to exit the video generation business and to shift its priorities elsewhere. We will continue to engage with AI platforms to find new ways to meet fans where they are while responsibly embracing new technologies that respect IP and the rights of creators.” OpenAI is looking to cut costs and refocus on its core priorities before a potential $1 trillion stock market listing later this year. Sam Altman, OpenAI chief executive, declared a “code red” in December as the company faces increasing competition from Anthropic and Google, while last week Fidji Simo, OpenAI’s head of applications, reportedly told staff that the company needed to “cut down on side quests”. OpenAI chief executive Sam Altman AFP While popular, video generation tools are hugely expensive, requiring much greater quantities of compute than simple text or even image generation. Last year, Bill Peebles, the head of Sora, said “the economics are currently completely unsustainable”. OpenAI reportedly has plans to double its headcount by the end of the year as it seeks to strengthen its position with business customers and accelerate a push into agentic AI. “The Sora research team continues to focus on world simulation research to advance robotics that will help people solve real-world, physical tasks,” OpenAI said.