H ouseholds should brace for an energy shock. The International Energy Agency has warned that we could have a crisis worse than that of the 1970s because of the war in the Middle East. And with Rachel Reeves hinting on Tuesday that any help to reduce household energy bills would be targeted instead of universal, many families will simply have to deal with escalating bills. And rightly so. Whether or not it is fair that only some will get support is debatable, but I don’t think we should expect to be bailed out every time there’s a crisis. Any handouts are likely to be added to our tax bill come the next budget — the last thing we need given that income tax thresholds are frozen until the turn of the decade. Money newsletter The latest personal finance and investment news from our money team. Sign up with one click So what should you do? First of all, if you are on your supplier’s variable tariff, nothing will happen to your energy bill until July. This is because these energy bills are — for now — protected by the regulator’s price cap, which limits the amount suppliers can charge variable tariff customers per unit of gas and electricity. At the moment the cap works out at £1,758 a year for a dual-fuel household with average usage paying by direct debit — this will fall to £1,641 in April. The cap is set by Ofgem every three months. Analysts at Cornwall Insight have said that the cap could rise to £1,973 a year from July 1. There’s sadly no cap for those households who rely on heating oil, the price of which has jumped hundreds of pounds in the past couple of weeks. If you are worried about what will happen to energy bills over the longer term, you can try to find a fixed tariff, where the amount you pay per unit of gas and electricity is set for a certain period, usually one or two years. This doesn’t mean that your energy bill stays the same each month — if you crank up the heating your bill will rise. Fixed deals are also becoming hard to find. There are now only 24 fixed tariffs available, down from 39 since the strikes on Iran began on February 28, according to the comparison website Uswitch. They are also more expensive than the price cap, which means you would be paying more for your energy in the short term to protect yourself from potential rises later on. But no one knows when the war will end and how it will affect bills, so this could be a gamble. Many fixed deals have steep early exit penalties so can be costly to get out of. With so many unknowns, the most important thing you can do is prepare for the worst but hope for the best. The best way to do this is to make sure you have a rainy day fund. It’s always recommended that you have a decent chunk of savings to cover unexpected eventualities. You can’t rely on your outgoings remaining the same — in fact, to do so would be pretty foolish. As history has taught us, runaway inflation, rising mortgage rates and energy shocks are more likely to happen every so often than not. And just as mortgage rates went up after the disastrous mini budget, so energy bills can now. If you consistently use up all your income each month and have no funds to fall back on, you’re effectively playing a very dangerous game. Especially if you are relying on the government to come and save you. Instead, you need to live within your means and try to put money aside when times are good. As we head towards warmer months and lower energy usage, start putting money away to prepare for the high bills that could come. And be conscious of your energy use. Turn that thermostat down a couple of degrees, don’t heat rooms you don’t use, and switch the lights off when you leave a room. Preparation is everything — and it’ll help to keep you warm this winter.