Google rolls out high-risk security update for Chrome users. SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images Updated March 29: Following confirmation from Google that it has released a high-risk security update for nearly all of the 3.5 billion users of its Chrome web browser, this article was updated with news concerning the public disclosure of a vulnerability impacting Anthropic's Claude Google Chrome extension, known as ShadowPrompt. A vulnerability that had the potential to allow any maliciously inclined website to inject prompts silently, without the user being asked for any kind of permission and requiring no clicks from them either. The article has now been further updated with more advice on how to mitigate the threat from rogue extensions, including using Google’s own protections and, oh, the irony, employing a Chrome extension that can help spot signs of compromise when a valid add-on goes bad. Here’s what you need to know and do. Google has confirmed that nearly all 3.5 billion users of the world’s most used web browser, Chrome, are to receive a security update addressing no less than eight high-risk vulnerabilities. Thankfully, none of these are of the zero-day variety as recently reported , meaning there is no evidence of any of them being exploited by threat actors. There’s more good news as well; Chrome applies these updates automatically. Google does, however, warn that the security rollout could take days or weeks to complete, so users are best advised to kickstart the process and get protected as soon as possible. Here’s what you need to know and do. Forbes FBI Issues Alert As Thousands Of Signal Accounts Confirmed Hacked By Davey Winder What We Know About The New Google Chrome Security Vulnerabilities Google’s Srinivas Sista has confirmed that Chrome is being updated to 146.0.7680.164/165 for Windows/Mac  and 146.0.7680.164 for Linux, while Krishna Govind made a similar announcement for Android users, taking the app to version 146.0.76380.164. Although, as the Google security update confirmation  stated, access to the details regarding the eight vulnerabilities will be “kept restricted until a majority of users are updated with a fix,” I can tell you that they impact everything from WebAudio, WebGL, WebGPU and CSS, even the Chrome Fonts component has been affected. The eight security vulnerabilities themselves, all with a high Common Vulnerability Scoring System severity rating, are as follows: CVE-2026-4673: Heap buffer overflow in WebAudio CVE-2026-4674: Out-of-bounds read in CSS CVE-2026-4675: Heap buffer overflow in WebGL CVE-2026-4676: Use after free in Dawn (part of the WebGPU implementation) CVE-2026-4677: Out-of-bounds read in WebAudio CVE-2026-4678: Use-after-free in WebGPU CVE-2026-4679: Integer overflow in Fonts CVE-2026-4680: Use after free in FedCM (a privacy-centric identity authentication component) Forbes Emergency Microsoft Windows 11 Security Update Confirmed By Davey Winder Why You Need To Update Google Chrome And How To Do It Right Now I’m not suggesting that the security vulnerabilities that are patched in this latest update to Google Chrome are anywhere near as critical as CVE-2025-20435, which put as many as 875 million Android smartphone users at risk of being hacked while the device was locked and in less than 60 seconds, but that doesn’t mean you can just sit back and relax. All Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures listed security flaws, especially those that get a high severity rating, must be taken seriously. So, while Chrome will be updated automatically, and quite possibly by the time you are reading this, there’s no guarantee the patch will have reached you yet. Thankfully, there’s a way to avoid all doubt and kickstart the process, and it’s really straightforward, taking just a few seconds to do: just go to the Help|About Google Chrome option in the three-dot menu at the top right of the Chrome window. And that’s it, pretty much. Relaunch Google Chrome to activate the security update. Davey Winder This will check your version and if any update is available. If so, it will be downloaded and installed. You must relaunch the browser, as Google has made it quite clear, though, that the security update will not be activated unless you do. ShadowPrompt: Exploiting Google Chrome Extension For 0-Click Prompt Injection If you want further evidence of the power of prompt (every pun intended) patching and responsible disclosure of security vulnerabilities impacting Chrome users, look no further than the newly published report concerning ShadowPrompt. Oren Yomtov, principal security researcher at Koi, has published the full technical analysis of the vulnerability, which Anthropic and Arkose Labs have already fixed, following the original responsible and private disclosure on December 27, 2025. Another high-risk vulnerability, this one could have enabled anyone using Anthropic's Claude Google Chrome extension to trigger nefarious AI prompts simply by visiting a malicious website, zero clicks required. "No clicks, no permission prompts. Just visit a page, and an attacker completely controls your browser,” Yomtov confirmed. The attack chain involved what the report described as an “overly permissive origin allowlist” in the Google Chrome extension, along with a cross-site scripting vulnerability in an Arkose Labs CAPTCHA component. Yes, CAPTCHA again , yikes. Please read the full report if you want the technical details behind this one, but rest assured, the danger is over, as the Chrome extension has already been updated and the XSS vulnerability patched. “If you're using the Claude Google Chrome Extension,” Yomtov said, “verify your installed version is 1.0.41 or higher, as earlier versions might still be vulnerable. Go to chrome://extensions, find the Claude extension, and check the version number.” Forbes ‘Hack Yourself’ Apple Attack Steals Mac Passwords By Davey Winder Mitigating The Risk Of Google Chrome Extensions Going Rogue Although, as I hope I have made perfectly clear, Anthropic’s Claude Google Chrome extension was subject to a security vulnerability and did not go rogue, the latter threat is, unfortunately, an all-too-common scenario for users of the world’s most popular web browser. I’m not talking about extensions that are malicious from the get-go, as they are easily detected by Google’s behind-the-scenes Chrome store protections, and exceptions are very rare indeed. Nope, when I say go rogue, I mean literally that: a previously legitimate browser extension that has suddenly turned into a security threat. One of the most common reasons for this is when an extension gets hacked or, worryingly, sold off and bought by a malicious actor. I wrote about just such an example recently: the QuickLens extension , which was used to run Google Lens searches from within the Chrome browser itself.  The extension earned itself a Google Featured badge, alongside a not-to-shabby 7,000 users. Then it changed ownership after the original developer sold up, and within just two weeks, a new version was released that was weaponized with ClickFix attacks d information stealing functionality. That QuickLens extension, by the way, was removed from the Chrome Web Store, and automatically disabled by Chrome itself. As well as other protections, Google said that “When you use Google Safe Browsing in Chrome, you receive warnings that help protect you against malware, abusive sites and extensions, phishing, malicious and intrusive ads, and social engineering attacks.” Safe Browsing, by default, is in standard mode, which offers “security from known dangers,” according to Google. I would recommend, however, that you change this to enhanced mode, as this is the most secure browsing option, as it adds potential new dangers to the protections. To make the configuration change, simply open Chrome, and use the three-dot menu to head for Settings|Privacy and Security|Security|Safe Browsing. Enable enhanced safe browsing for Google Chrome extension protections. Google Another way to help mitigate the rogue extension threat is, and I recognise the irony, by using an extension. The extension in question is “Under New Management” which is developed by ClassVSoftware. What it does, and all it doers, is detect when the Google Chrome extensions that you already have installed change developer. If anything changes, you get a red badge warning, and the extension will display developer information using a before-and-after change method. Of course, extensions can have developer changes for legitimate reasons as well as malicious ones, but anything that gives you a heads up for potential issues is welcome. Under New Management warns when your extensions change owner. Google Forbes Warning—Android Tablets Shipped With Firmware Malware By Davey Winder