Group of young business people in smart casual wear working together in creative office using laptop. getty In today’s column, I examine a recently released survey that sought to gauge how the public is reacting to all the clamoring and hubbub about AI and the future of humanity. You would have to be living in a cave that has no Internet service to not be daily inundated with bold predictions and outsized proclamations about AI. One moment, the headlines say that AI will wipe out all of humankind. Period, end of story. The next moment, there is a rush of excitement that AI will cure all diseases and ensure that human beings live beyond their existing life expectancy. The world population will grow abundantly, and we will all relax on easy street. An interesting and important question is whether these brazen pronouncements are actually landing home. Do people really jump on these contrived bandwagons? Or does the public treat the whole shish kabab as a lot of noise and hot air? The talking heads assume they are gaining traction. Maybe they are, maybe they aren’t. This swaying of public opinion is enormously significant because public perception drives how policymakers and lawmakers will opt to either regulate, overregulate, or underregulate the progress of AI. It is vital to understand whether the public at large is truly being swayed, and if so, which angles or postures are the most convincing. Advances in AI will be regulated either to proceed at a lightning-fast pace or slowed down to a snail’s pace. There is even talk about banning particular types of AI or approaches to AI; see my coverage at the link here and the link here . A smorgasbord of options is on the table. Lawmakers are eyeing public opinion as to which direction AI should be driven. Let’s talk about it. This analysis of AI breakthroughs is part of my ongoing Forbes column coverage on the latest in AI, including identifying and explaining various impactful AI complexities (see the link here ). AI And The Law As a quick background, I’ve been extensively covering and analyzing a myriad of facets regarding the intersection of AI and the law for many years. You can find my writings not only in my Forbes column but also as posted in Bloomberg Law, ABA Law Journal, The National Jurist, The Global Legal Post, Lawyer Monthly, The Legal Technologist, MIT Computational Law Journal, and so on. There are two major perspectives on the mixture of AI and law: (1) Law & AI. The application of laws to the governance and regulation of AI. (2) AI & Law . The application of AI to perform legal reasoning. Thus, you can apply the law to AI, and conversely, you can apply AI to the law. For my big picture overview of both of these exciting and rapidly evolving realms, see my discussion at the link here and the link here . When it comes to applying the law to AI, the aim is to establish suitable regulations and provide appropriate governance on how AI should be devised and implemented. There are longstanding concerns that AI makers aren’t giving due attention to the ethical ramifications of their wares. Ethical issues are construed as “soft laws” and aren’t as formidable as legally enacted laws, known as “hard laws”. To level the playing field and keep AI makers on the up-and-up, some believe that we need more lawmakers to make more laws about AI. It might seem easy to just go ahead and pile on new AI laws. The problem is that for each new AI law, there is a solid chance of creating confusion and muddying the waters of AI expectations. Yes, ironically, though AI laws are supposed to straighten things out, if the AI laws aren’t properly crafted, they can lead to all sorts of undesirable adverse consequences. AI Future And Humanity’s Future There are two major dogmas or camps in the torrid marketplace of heady proclamations about the future of AI and humanity. There are the sad-faced AI doomers versus the happy-faced AI accelerationists (AI accelerations are also known as AI zoomers). For my detailed elaboration on the good, bad, and ugly about these two divides, see the link here . Here’s a quick rundown. AI doomers are said to be pessimists. They believe that the risks associated with advanced AI are extraordinarily high. AI is going to enslave us, or if not that, presumably wipe us out. Take your pick. Neither choice seems palatable. This might happen once AI is advanced enough to become artificial general intelligence (AGI). AGI is when AI becomes on par with human intellect. The next step up would be artificial superintelligence (ASI). The ASI will be a type of AI that surpasses human intelligence, possibly far beyond our intellectual capacity. At that juncture, we will be ants in comparison to the acumen that ASI will possess. For more on the details of the differences between AI, AGI, and ASI, see my in-depth analysis at the link here . Common catchphrases associated with AI doomers include but are not limited to these notable utterances: doom and gloom proponents, alarmists that the world will end, principally assess AI as bad or leading to evil, irreverently denoted as Luddites 2.0, and catastrophically declare that AI will be humanity’s last invention due to the AI destroying whatever humanity exists at that time (wreaking havoc after reaching AGI or ASI). They believe strongly in AI as an existential risk, labeled as X-risk, and estimate the probability of our doom as a mathematical function p(doom). The Other Side Of The Coin Shifting gears, AI accelerationists are said to be optimists. They tend to contend that advanced AI, such as AGI or ASI, is going to solve humanity’s problems. Cure cancer, yes indeed. Overcome world hunger, absolutely. We will see immense economic gains, liberating people from the drudgery of daily toil. AI will work hand-in-hand with humans. This benevolent AI is not going to usurp humanity. AI of this nature will be the last invention humans have ever made, but that’s good, in the sense that AI will invent things on our behalf that we never could have envisioned. Some construe AI accelerationists as believing that AI is a bright and shiny liberator, which will jumpstart humankind to greater levels never anticipated. AI is good and will be a promoter of goodness. AI accelerationists who stridently and proudly carry that banner are often assigned the label of being AI evangelists. You might know or easily guess that the two camps or dogmas are diametrically opposed to each other. AI doomers would tend to insist they are AI realists rather than AI pessimists, and the AI accelerationists would contend that they are true AI realists, more so than being AI optimists. Each side tends to denounce the other side. Sometimes this is done in a logical, measured tone, while at other times it is highly acrimonious and descends into abysmal name-calling. New AI Laws Will Shape Where AI Goes Lawmakers vary significantly as to which camp they side with. Some lawmakers are fully in the AI doom camp. Their law-making efforts go toward restricting AI, controlling AI makers, and otherwise aiming to slow down the seemingly out-of-control advancement of AI. There are lawmakers who reside squarely in the AI accelerationists camp. They seek to prevent new AI laws or at least shape such laws to enable rapid AI advancement to continue without obstructive constraints. Of course, there are lots of lawmakers who are in between or haven’t decided which direction they want to go. Those undecided lawmakers are typically watching and waiting to see where public sentiment lands. This is perhaps a politically astute approach. It would seem politically unwise to choose a side and then find that their constituency doesn’t support that side. Longevity as a lawmaker could be at stake depending on how they opt to proceed. Meanwhile, all those talking heads in the news and on social media continue to try to garner attention to their preferred side. Some try to use logic and explain how AI is going to be amazingly good or horribly bad. Others seek to get people riled up. Aim at the emotions of people. Push their buttons. Get commitment to a side, whatever means are necessary. Why do these talking heads do this? Lots of reasons come into play, such as: Genuine belief in their opinions about AI. Seek views and clicks. Want to be a modern-day Nostradamus. Have a financial stake in the gambit. Craves fame and public adulation. Goaded by others. Feel compelled to share the “truth” as they see it. Emotionally wedded to the position. Aim to undercut the other side. Etc. Any of those might be motivators. The motivations can be combined, and a talking head might embody many of them at once. Another possibility is that they will shift from one motivation to a different one. Always keep your guard up and your skepticism firmly in hand. What Sways The Public The big question is whether the daily bombardment about AI and the future of humanity is actually getting into people’s minds. Within the AI community, there is almost nothing more important than where the future of AI is headed. But the public might not be quite so attentive to the ins and outs of AI. People have their day-to-day responsibilities on their minds. Can they afford their daily costs? Will they be able to keep their existing job? Is it possible to buy a home? All the bread-and-butter issues that matter are likely more personally notable than handwaving about the future of AI. A recent survey provides an intriguing look at what seems to be on the minds of the public when it comes to AI and the future. In a posted study entitled “Which AI Harms And Risks Will Mobilize The Public To Act?” by Markus Ostarek, Catchy Rogers, Ben Kenward, Sam Nadel, Social Change Lab , March 2026, these salient points were made (excerpts): “Despite widespread concerns and broad support for AI regulation, AI remains a low salience issue; when people are asked about the issues that matter most to them, AI ranks low.” “There is a ‘mobilization gap’ -- the gap between caring and doing. This research investigates what might close that gap.” “The extinction risk posed to humanity by AI (X-risk) had the lowest level of concern of any harm/risk. Concrete, present-day harms may be a better way to communicate on X-risk.” “AI-enabled warfare is the only condition that credibly shifted people on all three measures; it increased agreement that AI is a threat, and that we need to slow down AI development, and increased support for greater government regulation of AI.” “The psychological drivers of willingness to take action were anger (not anxiety or fear), perceived temporal proximity of the risk (sooner being stronger), and concern for others rather than oneself.” According to this survey, AI is a somewhat lower ranking topic of concern overall, which might be a surprise to AI aficionados, but isn’t especially shocking to those outside the AI echo chambers. My impression from various public talks that I give is that AI is certainly of some worthwhile concern, but the prevailing economics of life and ongoing friction of today’s existence tend to be higher-ranked. Insights About Public Perception An eye-opening point made in the study is that there is a distinction between people caring about an AI topic versus acting on an AI topic. Allow me to elaborate. A person might say that they care about AI doing this or that. That seems convincing, on the surface. The twist is that they won’t necessarily follow up and do anything active about it. Make sure to realize that there is “caring,” and there is “acting,” which are two distinct levels of concern and commitment. The researchers describe this gap between caring and acting as a mobilization gap. People will say that something concerns them, but they won’t necessarily go out of their way to try to act directly on it. I will briefly walk you through some highlights in this regard. You are encouraged to read the full study to get the nitty-gritty details. First, please be aware that the researchers selected 11 topics to ask the respondents about. This is important because the respondents who took the survey were focused on those eleven topics. Other topics about AI that weren’t listed are not explicitly represented in this survey. The point being that if you have some AI topic that sits outside these eleven, you cannot make substantive claims per se about how that topic compares to these topics, in the sense that the respondents weren’t being asked about that additional topic. Do not over-extend the survey results. The Eleven Selected AI Topics I am going to start by showing you the eleven topics, sequenced in alphabetical order. I do so to first emphasize that these are the eleven topics overall. This alphabetical sequence says nothing about any ranked preference by the respondents. Here then are the eleven topics as shown in alphabetical order: AI-enabled fraud. Autonomous weapons controlled by AI. Biases contained within AI systems. Disinformation via AI. Environmental harm wrought by AI data centers. Human cognitive decline due to AI reliance. Human extinction risks as a result of AI. Job displacement due to AI. Misinformation generated by AI. Social isolation by relying on AI companions. Surveillance by the use of AI. Please take a reflective moment and ponder what ranking you would give to these eleven AI topics. Which most concerns you? Which least concerns you? Which would you be most likely to take overt action about? Which would you be least likely to take overt action about? Grab a glass of fine wine, find a quiet spot, and come up with your personal ranking. Ranking By Concerns I am going to simplify the statistics presented in the study, so please bear with me. I have opted to try and showcase the eleven topics in a ranking of most concern to least concern, as expressed across-the-board by the respondents. You can go ahead and compare this list to the one that perhaps you personally made just a short moment ago. Here are the topics listed in order of most concern to least concern: (1) Misinformation generated by AI. (2) Autonomous weapons controlled by AI. (3) Disinformation via AI. (4) AI-enabled fraud. (5) Biases contained within AI systems. (6) Environmental harm wrought by AI data centers. (7) Job displacement due to AI. (8) Human cognitive decline due to AI reliance. (9) Surveillance by the use of AI. (10) Social isolation by relying on AI companions. (11) Human extinction risks as a result of AI. As per the summary points that I had excerpted earlier, human extinction or X-risk has landed at the bottom of the list of concerns. Thus, in the eleven ranked concerns, people overall placed X-risk at the bottom. Is that startling or jaw-dropping? Nope. If you mindfully think about the other ten topics, those are much more akin to people’s daily lives. People are probably doubtful that this whole sci-fi extinction storytelling is real, or that if it does happen, it is a long way in the future. There are more daily bread issues contained in the other ten topics. Indeed, look at the top three. The AI generating misinformation topic comes out on top, along with the AI disinformation generation coming in at third place. Those are clearly in-your-face topics that people are struggling with. It makes sense that those topics would be top-ranked. The AI autonomous weapons topic came in at the second position. You might be aghast. Shouldn’t AI in warfare be the highest-ranked concern? Well, again, this ranking likely embodies day-to-day considerations. Be relieved that AI autonomous weapons garnered the second spot. It wasn’t below the top 5. It wasn’t ranked at the bottom. It seems apparent that the use of AI in warfare is certainly a prominent concern. Ranking By Taking Action Here are the topics based on the respondents' willingness to take action : (1) Environmental harm wrought by AI data centers. (2) Disinformation via AI. (3) Biases contained within AI systems. (4) Misinformation generated by AI. (5) AI-enabled fraud. (6) Autonomous weapons controlled by AI. (7) Surveillance by the use of AI. (8) Job displacement due to AI. (9) Human cognitive decline due to AI reliance. (10) Human extinction risks as a result of AI. (11) Social isolation by relying on AI companions. The topic regarding environmental harm from AI data centers ranks first place in the willingness to act categorization. I think this makes sense. There is a tremendous flurry of news stories and social media consternation that all these new AI data centers are going to consume undue amounts of electricity and water. In addition, the worry is that the AI data centers will emit pollutants or otherwise have adverse environmental side effects. That’s a topic that people are likely ready to act upon. They have undoubtedly been involved in or perhaps acted on other environmental issues over the course of their present existence. Ecology and the environment have been a longstanding consideration since the 1970s. People know about the matter. They realize that action speaks louder than words when it comes to fixing the environment. Caveats About The Study Whenever you read about or hear the results of a survey, it is useful to dig into how the survey was conducted. Different surveys take different approaches and use differing methodologies. In fact, two different surveys can produce dramatically different results. This can happen due to how each study was designed and carried out. Here are the details. This was a survey of U.K. respondents -- you will need to decide whether this is representative for other countries, such as the U.S. Maybe it is, maybe not. The researchers surveyed 3,467 participants who had been recruited online. Does using participants who are online differ from asking them in person? It can. You must consider who has online access in general and who has the time and inclination to complete an online survey. The data collection began on January 10, 2026, and continued until the targeted sample size was reached. Does the timing of when a survey occurs make a difference? Yes, it does. You must consider what was on people’s minds at the time when the survey was undertaken. What was in the news about AI? What was the status of AI at that point in time? And so on. A randomized controlled trial (RCT) methodology was utilized. This is considered the gold standard for this type of research. See my coverage about RCT in AI analyses, at the link here . The group that received the empirical treatment was given news-like articles or vignettes of 110 words in length, each vignette covering one of the 11 topics. They then answered questions associated with the AI topic. The control group was given the questions but was not given the vignettes. To some extent, the wording of the vignettes provides a potential bias and could lead respondents in a skewed direction. This is the tradeoff of using vignettes. By performing an RCT, the hope is that the control group will end up revealing whether the vignettes might have overplayed their hand. The Big Picture Lawmakers should be thinking about AI and gearing up for what they intend to do regarding new AI laws and regulations. Be cautious in overly giving weight to the talking heads. In that same vein, do not necessarily assume that the talking heads are moving the dial when it comes to public opinion. Furthermore, there is an important distinction between what people say they care about when it comes to AI versus what they will get off the dime and do something about. The famous American author Robert A. Heinlein made this remark: “You can sway a thousand people by appealing to their prejudices quicker than you can convince one person by logic.” I bring this up because another crucial point in the survey was that anger seemed to outrank anxiety or fear associated with the AI topics. I suppose that those wishing to sway public opinion are or ought to tap into using anger rather than continually aiming at fear (i.e., AI is going to kill you, AI is going to enslave you). At the same time, I hope that the public realizes that the concerted attempts to sway them are exploiting emotional triggers, and an aware public will resist such tactics. Time will tell, and so will the stats.