Critical update notifications are being sent to iPhone users Anadolu via Getty Images Apple routinely recommends that users keep their device software bang up to date. However, Apple is now sending unprecedented alert notifications to some iPhone users. Here’s what’s going on. Forbes iOS 26.4: Apple Releases Latest Critical iPhone Update With These Key New Features By David Phelan The updates appear directly on the iPhone lock screen and within the Settings app, so you should see them easily enough. What The Critical Software Notification Means “The alerts, which appear as a "Critical Software" notification from the Settings app, warn that Apple "is aware of attacks targeting out-of-date iOS software, including the version on your iPhone," and urge users to install a critical update to protect their device. The notifications are being seen on devices running a range of older iOS versions, including iOS 17.0, far beyond the iOS 13 and iOS 14 devices that Apple specifically flagged in its support documentation,” MacRumors reported. Specifically, the alert states, “Apple is aware of attacks targeting out-of-date iOS software, including the version on you iPhone. Install this critical update to protect your iPhone.” The DarkSword And Coruna Threats The recent support documentation highlighted hacking tools such as DarkSword (now readily available since it was uploaded to GitHub — more on that here ) and Coruna. These hacks could lead to data being compromised if a malicious link is clicked or if you visit a compromised website on your phone. How To Protect Your iPhone Now The good news is that in addition to the latest iOS 26 release such as iOS 26.4, Apple has recently updated software for earlier versions, such as iOS 15.8.7, iOS 16.7.15 and iOS 18.7.7 which protect users from these threats. If you don’t know which version of software you’re running, go to Settings, General and then Software Update. If there’s an update waiting for you, one click will download and install it, providing peace of mind against this threat. There’s one other option, if you’re unable to update: Lockdown Mode, which protects against malicious web content and is available for phones from iOS 16 onwards. This is safe, but reduces functionality, such as blocking message attachments and restricting FaceTime calls form unknown numbers, for instance. Forbes Samsung Confirms More Details Of Game-Changing Galaxy S26 Upgrade By David Phelan