While eyes are firmly fixed on Samsung’s new ultra-wide foldable phone , another innovation is landing on millions of new Samsung Galaxy devices via the One UI 8.5 beta rollout: an upgraded Bixby. Perplexity-Powered Bixby Is A Quiet Gamechanger For Samsung Galaxy Phones You likely already know the story of Bixby; Samsung’s beleaguered assistant quickly lost ground to the more advanced Google Assistant, Siri, and Amazon Alexa 10 years ago. But with the advent of generative AI, Samsung saw an opportunity to redesign the assistant as an on-board device expert, and it works exceptionally well. Forbes Samsung’s New Galaxy S26 Ultra Gamble Pays Off Early By Janhoi McGregor Powered by a partnership with AI company Perplexity (which also saw the two organizations giving away free Perplexity Pro memberships last year ), Bixby can now find and change settings on your Samsung Galaxy phone. It may sound pedestrian, but Samsung phones often suffer from feature bloat, meaning a significant chunk of the device’s tools aren’t just unused, but also completely unknown. The Samsung Galaxy S26 Ultra. (Photo by Joan Cros/NurPhoto via Getty Images) NurPhoto via Getty Images The new Bixby changes that. For example, you can ask Bixby to switch on your hotspot, or ask it to run a diagnostic on your battery health. You don’t even need to know the specific names of settings because it now understands natural language. If you tell Bixby your eyes are strained, it will turn on the Eye Comfort Shield. Or, if you say your screen is still too bright in the dark, it will enable Extra Dim. This has quietly been my favorite aspect of the Samsung Galaxy S26 series; it solves a long-held issue with feature-rich smartphones and makes the phone fully usable. Samsung is rolling this Bixby update out via One UI 8.5 to millions of users, including those on the Galaxy S24 and S25 series, as well as the Galaxy Z Fold 6 and Flip 6. Doubling Down On Genuinely Useful AI For Samsung Galaxy Phones The Korean company has been working with Perplexity since summer 2025, when it offered free Perplexity Pro subscriptions to all U.S.-based Samsung Galaxy users. Off the back of Bixby’s upgrade, Samsung has now announced it will launch the Samsung Browser on Windows with agentic AI capabilities powered by Perplexity. Forbes Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 8 ‘Wide’ Gets New Confirmation By Janhoi McGregor The upgraded browser uses a sidebar AI chat to help with whatever the user is doing. Samsung gives the example of asking Perplexity to plan an itinerary when searching for holiday destinations. Other features include using natural language to retrieve pages from browsing history, and comparing information across separate tabs by asking Perplexity, rather than manually looking yourself. What isn’t mentioned in the Samsung release is whether the browser will complete tasks on the user’s behalf—a key feature of agentic AI browsers such as Perplexity’s Comet or OpenAI’s Atlas. This would include asking your browser to find and book a vacation for you, which it completes using your stored travel and financial information. It is possible the feature exists but wasn’t mentioned, or perhaps the Korean company is holding back on rolling out a potentially volatile feature to millions of Samsung Galaxy users until the technology matures.