Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang delivers a keynote address at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, Nevada on January 6, 2025. Gadgets, robots and vehicles imbued with artificial intelligence will once again vie for attention at the Consumer Electronics Show, as vendors behind the scenes will seek ways to deal with tariffs threatened by US President-elect Donald Trump. The annual Consumer Electronics Show (CES) opens formally in Las Vegas on January 7, 2025, but preceding days are packed with product announcements. (Photo by Patrick T. Fallon / AFP) (Photo by PATRICK T. FALLON/AFP via Getty Images) AFP via Getty Images In 2023 alone, $50 billion worth of investment found its way to U.S.-based AI, and AI-adjacent business concepts. This investment surge took place amid 525 basis points worth of increases in the Fed funds rate. What was the catalyst for the investment surge amid an allegedly “tight” Fed? It was ChatGPT’s rollout on November 30, 2022 in concert with the realization that Nvidia was supplying ChatGPT with the graphics processing units (GPUs) required for the then non-profit to “train” its large language models. The profound GPU advances overseen by Nvidia that powered what ChatGPT became instruct in many ways, including as a lesson in what credit is. Hopefully from what readers have read so far, they see that the conventional, Milton Friedman, central banking-narrative is wholly at odds with how economies work, along with the Federal Reserve’s role in how economies work. Friedman famously promoted the academic notion about the 1930s that the Fed somehow “did it.” Friedman believed, and countless economists of varying religious stripes have believed ever since, that an overly “tight” Fed was the major driver of the 1930s downturn otherwise known as the Great Depression. Except that basic economic logic rejects what Friedman felt, and what an overwhelming percentage of economists feel to this day. Nvidia instructs. In other words, it wasn’t just the $50 billion surge of investment into artificial intelligence (AI) concepts that happily revealed itself post ChatGPT/Nvidia in 2023, it’s the hundreds of billions that have been invested since by supposedly “monopolistic” members of Big Tech who, based on their alleged monopoly status, were said to have escaped competition. No, not remotely. If you’re doubtful about what you’ve read, simply compare a Google search from November 1 of 2022 versus one in 2026. Innovation begets more of it, and the soaring productivity is a magnet for the finance that authors economic growth. The Fed factors in none of this. If anything, what’s happening presently is yet another reminder that the Fed isn’t terribly relevant. That’s because credit is produced . No one borrows money, or sells shares in their business for money, rather all attempts to attain money are about acquiring resources: market goods, services, and most crucial of all, labor. The Fed produces none of the three. As for Nvidia, it exemplifies what credit is. What expands credit is productive economic activity, and nothing else. Conversely, a lack of productive economic activity is the only way to shrink credit access. We’re seeing this now as Nvidia catalyzes an investment boom. In a recent Wall Street Journal article about the $25 billion valuation placed on Revolution, another Nvidia-backed AI startup, it was reported that “The company is one of a handful of Nvidia-linked start-ups” that grows by the day. Just a few days before the Revolution story, the Journal reported on a gathering at San Francisco’s War Memorial Opera House for a production of “The Monkey King” bankrolled by Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang, but that the packed house was really “about paying respect to an industry kingmaker whose company had become so flush with cash that it was bankrolling virtually everyone in the room.” Yes, Nvidia’s soaring productivity is the source of credit for technological advance in Silicon Valley, and well beyond. Which is the point. Credit isn’t something the Fed can tighten (Friedman’s monetarists), or expand (Austrian School religionists who find hyperinflation wherever they look care of the Fed creating the impossibility that is “excess credit”), rather it’s an effect of production finding production. It’s a reminder that Nvidia is credit expansion personified, while the Fed is but a distraction for economists.