circa 1900: Women switchboard operators at the Manchester Telephone Exchange. (Photo by Hulton Archive/Getty Images) Getty Images As data center construction explodes with cement, electronics, fiber optics and cooling fluids, there are critical developments occurring in mesh network switching to maximize data speeds and minimize latency, power consumption and size. The key to this is being able to switch high bandwidth data streams between different channels. Switching has gone through significant technological progress in the past century. During the first half of the 20 th century, telephone operators primarily switched calls between sender and receiver using copper patch cords manually inserted into a custom switchboard with a large number of input and output ports, located within a central telephone office. As telephony grew, manual switching became unscalable, especially during peak traffic.  Early development (1900-1910) of automated switching was based on moving electro-mechanical devices which used a series of mechanical contacts (selectors) to connect calls. In 1940 , PCM (Pulse Code Modulation) technology to develop digital switching using the just invented transistor device commenced. The world’s first all-digital PCM telephone exchange became operational in London in 1968 By the mid-1990’s , data traffic started growing with the invention of the internet.  By 2005, data started becoming the dominant traffic carried by traditional telephony, ISP (Internet Service Provider) and cable companies. The mid-1990’s-early 2000 also saw the telecom boom and the proliferation of fiber-optic networks for long-distance, urban and last-mile connectivity, spurred on by the internet and advent of video services. Web-services and hosting started in the early 2000’s , with Salesforce offering web-applications in 1999 and Amazon Web Services (AWS) launching the first cloud computing and data storage service in 2006 . The launch of the iPhone in 2007 and associated social media and smart-phone applications led to an even higher amount of data transmission and management. Data centers have been around since the 1940’s, first for specialized needs (defense, intelligence, business),  and later for commercial services like AWS ( 1990-2006 ). Starting in 2020, the AI and crypto booms created a need for hyperscale data centers.   Today, d ata center construction is growing, with ever more demands for energy, space, electronics and cooling solutions.  AI needs are massive, both for training for digital (search, chat, synthetic data generation, etc.) and physical AI applications (like driverless cars and trucks, blue collar industries like construction, agriculture, mining and critical infrastructure monitoring ).  While most physical AI applications use edge-AI, the majority of workflows in AI system training and across digital AI applications occur over the cloud, and are managed by hyper-scale data centers. A modern data center consumes > 100 MW of power, can store and manage few hundred terabytes in a smaller facility to several exabytes (1 exabyte = 1 million terabytes) in a large one.   A typical hyper-scale data center (think AWS, Microsoft, Google) has at least 5,000 servers managing this flow of data, and uses 100-500 acres (1 acre ~ 4,000 m² or 43,000 ft², and space scales with energy consumption). It also switches up to trillions of data packets across its network of servers, storage systems, and accelerated AI workloads.  Public acceptance of data centers in rural and suburban communities is essential.  Reducing energy consumption, cooling needs, latency and space for every piece of the operation is critical - for cost, performance, sustainability and public acceptance. Figure 1: Aldie, VA: On what was recently farmland, Amazon data centers have been built as close as 50 feet from Loudoun Meadows houses on January 20, 2023, in Aldie, VA. As the data center industry expands its footprint in Northern Virginia, often building massive commercial structures near residential neighborhoods, communities push back with their concerns.(Photo by Jahi Chikwendiu/The Washington Post via Getty Images) The Washington Post via Getty Images Switching Trillions of Data Packets/s  - With a Global Population of 6T The manual operations of the last century will not cut it.  Neither will the advances in switching capacity of the first quarter of this century.  Cost, performance, size and sustainability are key metrics that any new technology needs to address.  A couple of recent articles lay out methodologies for serving these new demands for bandwidth management in data centers.   Optical Circuit Switching (OCS) is a critical area to address.  It enables higher scalability by enabling dynamic network reconfiguration for data/compute load balancing, something that traditional packet-based switching is not equipped to do. OCS directly switches optical data beams without any opto-electrical-opto conversion, which reduces signal loss, space, component count, cost, power and heat generation.   In many ways, OCS is as dramatic a development for data centers as PCM (Pulse Code Modulation) technology for digital switching of voice calls in 1968. Lumentum, a major optics company, focuses on application of optical technologies (including InP based lasers at 1310 and 1550 nm) in hyper-scale data centers.  It’s R300 OCS product uses MEMS (Micro Electro Mechanical Systems) mirror arrays in a 300x300 port switch (Figure 2).  This is an attractive solution, although it is lossy (~2 dB of insertions loss per switch).  MEMs are resonant devices with limited angular movement, which limits flexibility in mesh networks. The R64 is a more compact version (Figure 2). Figure 2: Left R300, 300x300 Port Switch for Large Data Centers Scale Out. Right, R64, 64 x 64 Port Switch for GPU and Data Center Interconnect Lumentum Voyant Photonics, a FMCW LiDAR company recently announced plans for its Helium LiDAR (will launch in early 2027), a fully solid-state solution that achieves 2D scanning via a densely integrated optical switch matrix with high reliability, low loss, and fast reconfiguration speed.  These features make it ideal for LiDAR, and potentially useful for OCS implementation in a data center.  This is incorporated into a custom silicon photonics (SiPh) with waveguides (Figure 3).  It addresses a 90° by 120° Field of View (FoV), up to a range of 75 m.  InP coherent laser sources are optically integrated for a LiDAR.  The digital nature of the switch matrix, where a single pair of ON and OFF voltage levels controls thousands of switches, makes this solution scalable for the high density switching fabrics needed for OCS.  Its solid-state construction ensures high reliability, microsecond reconfiguration times, scalability, energy efficiency, compactness and low cost. (Disclosure: I am an advisor to Voyant Photonics) Figure 3: Voyant's SiPh Module for its Helium Family of Products Voyant Photonics Lumotive , a Seattle-based meta-materials company recently announced a breakthrough solution for 2D, solid-state switching of laser signals in data centers without no moving parts, implemented in low-cost, silicon CMOS technology, and at wavelengths typically used in high bandwidth, fiber-optic communications (1310 and 1550 nm).  The company has pioneered the use of LCM (Light Control Metasurface) technology to scan laser beams for LiDAR (Light Detection and Ranging) over large angular ranges for free space, 3D sensing for autonomous vehicles and robotics. This solution was for 1D scanning at 8XX-9XX nm wavelengths, supporting Time-of-Flight (ToF) LiDAR.   The recent breakthrough provides a solution for a variety of free space, optical applications at the higher wavelengths (which are more eye-safe and deliver more functionality) - dynamic alignment of laser beams in high speed, long-distance FSO (free-space optical) communication links, FMCW (Frequency Modulated Continuous Wave) Doppler LiDAR, and high density, high-speed switching of beams in mesh data center networks.  Figure 4 shows the optical schematics for the 1D and 2D LCM solutions. Figure 4: Lumotive LCM Based 2D Solid State Laser Beam Scanning Lumotive (Disclosure: I hold equity positions in Lumotive) According to Dr. David R. Smith , James B. Duke Distinguished Professor at Duke University and a pioneer in metamaterials research, “Demonstrating two-dimensional beamforming in a semiconductor metasurface platform is an important milestone for the field. The use of CMOS-compatible materials and fabrication approaches is particularly exciting because it creates a credible path toward scalable and manufacturable optical systems". Dr. Gleb Akselrod is the CTO and founder of Lumotive.  Leveraging his post-doctoral work at Duke University, he founded the company in 2017 to commercialize metamaterials for shaping and directing laser beams.  Per Dr. Akselrod, the company’s  2D LCM can work with a silicon photonics (SiPh) chip for FMCW LiDAR to provide fully solid-state scanning (current approaches use mechanical scanning along the slow axis, and Optical Phased Arrays or thermo-optical switch fabrics within the SiPh chip to perform fast axis or dual-axis scanning).  The other significant application is optical data switching in data centers.  Lumotive’s solution is all optical, all solid-state, and very importantly, software programmable, enabling truly dynamic mesh networking with densely packaged data interconnections.  Since it is all-optical, it has low latency.   Size and power consumption are also low.  The wide scanning angle (140° in both axes) for 1310 and 1550 nm wavelengths, makes it an ideal solution for next generation data center deployment.  The other key aspect is that phase functions can be written into each pixel of the metasurface, enabling different beam forming and lensing functions. Dr. Sam Heidari joined Lumotive as the CEO in 2021, and has been focused on growing the company (the company recently opened a location in Oman to serve Europe, Middle East and Asia customers).   He is excited about this new milestone and commercial opportunities it presents. “This milestone represents more than a technical achievement; it’s the realization of a decade-long vision to make optics truly programmable.  This new foundational technology extends our lead.  From communications and optical switching to high-performance 3D sensing, we are providing the essential toolkit for the next generation of industrial innovation”. Jim Anderson is the CEO of Coherent Corporation , a major optics and materials player.  It recently received a partnership with NVIDIA, which included a $2 billion investment to secure capacity for next-generation data center optics, such as 1.6T and 3.2T transceivers.  It is also active in the OCS space, having won a product award for its field-proven and ultra-reliable OCM platform based on a digital liquid-crystal platform. He is also a Board Member at Lumotive. “As AI infrastructure continues to scale, the demands on data center networks are increasing dramatically — both in bandwidth and efficiency.  Optical circuit switching is expected to be a key element of data center architecture evolution, particularly as the industry looks to drive greater power efficiency and improve network performance at scale. Continued innovation in how light is controlled and directed will be important in enabling the next generation of switching systems.” Data centers in the age of AI need a lot of physical resources - of compute &  communications hardware, energy, land and cooling.  It also needs public acceptance. which relies on maximizing its sustainability footprint.  Fully solid-state, optical techniques for circuit switching which eliminate optical to electric signal conversions are critical.