WASHINGTON, DC - March 22: Philip Jefferson, vice chair of the U.S. Federal Reserve System, listens during a Fed Listens event on March 22, 2024 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Al Drago/Getty Images) Getty Images Policymakers note how the current energy price shock may raise inflation if it persists. Fixed income markets now imply that interest rates could stay at the current level of 3.5% to 3.75% for the remainder of 2026 as the most likely scenario, according to the CME FedWatch Tool . Interest rate cuts remain possible, but markets view them as less likely, with even a small chance that rates could rise. Recession chances are up, too. Why Energy Prices Are Worrying The Fed Federal Reserve Vice Chair Philip Jefferson recently underlined the potential risks to the economy from energy pricing. At a speech on March 26 in Dallas, Jefferson said, “Energy products directly represent about 7 percent of total consumer spending, but energy costs are also spread through the economy, including in transportation, manufacturing, and food production. An extended bout of elevated energy prices could put upward price pressure on a variety of other products. As a policymaker, I will monitor to see if these higher costs become embedded in prices throughout the economy.” Jefferson continued, "The effects on the economy will greatly depend on how long energy prices remain elevated. A short period of disruption is unlikely to have a noticeable effect on the economy beyond a quarter or two. A sustained energy price shock, however, could have material implications." Governor Michael Barr broadly mirrored some of these comments at a speech at the Brookings Institution on March 26, saying, "We have had five years now of inflation at elevated levels, and near-term inflation expectations have risen again, so I am particularly concerned that yet another price shock could increase longer-term inflation expectations. Consumers and businesses factor future inflation into their current economic decisions, so there is a risk that this dynamic could lead to inflation persistence, making it more difficult to return inflation to 2 percent. We need to be especially vigilant." What This Means For Policy It’s now five years since the Fed suggested the inflation related to the pandemic may be transitory. That ultimately proved not to be the case, and materially higher interest rates followed. More recently, many policymakers have been willing to look past tariff inflation, which has been viewed as temporary and one-off, though tariff price inflation has not shown evidence of easing yet. That said, some projections expect it to moderate in the coming months. However, as Barr notes, the inflation target for the Federal Reserve is 2 percent. Inflation has run above that level for five years now. Policymakers were on course for some gradual easing of interest rates in 2026 , but that scenario now looks less likely, especially if energy prices remain elevated for several months. Crude oil prices now stand at over $100 a barrel; that’s up from prices in the $60s before the Iran conflict began. If energy prices do not moderate soon, then it’s likely interest rates may remain higher for longer in 2026. The Labor Market Wild Card Despite energy pricing, employment remains a wild card. If unemployment were to rise, then the Fed would be in a difficult position of having its employment and price-stability goals pull in different directions. However, if energy prices continue to remain elevated, then interest rate cuts for 2026 may become unlikely. Recession chances for 2026 are rising, too, and stand at just below 40% according to prediction market Kalshi .