LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA - NOVEMBER 23: The Rivian R2 is on display during the 2025 Los Angeles Auto Show at the Los Angeles Convention Center on November 23, 2025 in Los Angeles, California. (Photo by Josh Lefkowitz/Getty Images) Getty Images The R2, Rivian’s first mass-market EV, will compete with the best-selling Tesla Model Y .  A quick review of ratings by Consumer Reports, J.D. Power, and Edmunds shows the strengths and weaknesses of both brands as buyers weigh EV buying decisions in 2026. The chart highlights Rivian’s current Gen 2 R1 models, which have ranked low in Consumer Reports’ reliability but excelled in owner satisfaction. Rivian has also earned praise from Edmunds for driving dynamics and capability. These results reflect the challenges typical of a young EV startup with complex technology. For the upcoming R2, Rivian has emphasized simpler construction and component consolidation – roughly half the material costs of R1 models – and reduced production complexity to support higher volume and better margins over time. Rivian executives have noted that the R2 should become the majority of vehicle volume by the end of 2027. The first Rivian R2, the Performance R2 with Launch Package ($57,990), is due by June. Rivian Highlights Rivian has held the #1 spot for overall owner satisfaction for three consecutive years while scoring low on reliability, according to Consumer Reports: The "Buy Again" Factor: 85%–86% of Rivian owners say they would buy the same vehicle again, compared to roughly 72%–74% for Tesla. Comfort and Usability: Owners consistently rate Rivian high in interior comfort, material quality, and general day-to-day usability. The "Early Adopter" Forgiveness: Rivian owners exhibit high brand loyalty, often overlooking negative factors. Low reliability ranking: ranked at bottom. SANTA CLARA, CA - JANUARY 10: A view of a Tesla Model Y during the Silicon Valley Auto Show at Santa Clara Convention Center as cars, trucks, SUVs, crossovers and alternatives fuel vehicles displayed in Santa Clara, California, United States on January 10, 2026. (Photo by Tayfun Coskun/Anadolu via Getty Images) Anadolu via Getty Images Tesla Highlights Tesla wins the "Best Experience" brand, according to J.D. Power According to the J.D. Power 2026 U.S. Electric Vehicle Experience (EVX) Ownership Study, Tesla ranks high in the data-driven satisfaction rankings. Segment Rankings: The Tesla Model 3 ranked #1 overall with a score of 804/1,000 in the premium BEV segment, followed by the Model Y at 797. Rivian’s EVX: In the same study, the Rivian R1S (758) and R1T (739) trailed the premium segment average of 786. Infrastructure Advantage: Tesla’s scores are heavily bolstered by the Supercharger network and lower cost of ownership. EV Ranks – Rivian Vs. Tesla Ratings And Rankings: VDS = Vehicle Dependability Study; PP100 = Problems Per 100 vehicles Chart by Brooke Crothers / Grok AI