The 2026 Toyota RAV4 Plug-in Hybrid GR Sport at the Vancouver Auto Show. Photographer: James MacDonald/Bloomberg © 2026 Bloomberg Finance LP Toyota was supposed to be on the wrong side of history. As rivals spent billions of dollars engineering and developing all-electric lineups, anticipating the imminent electric vehicle revolution, the world’s largest automaker clung stubbornly to its time-tested hybrid lineup. While other automakers phased out popular combustion vehicles, thus reducing showroom traffic, Toyota doubled down on its gasoline-electric lineup—ending 2025 with sales of roughly 10.5 million vehicles worldwide. And now, with major industry players taking billion-dollar losses as they cancel EV projects , Toyota will never lift its foot off the accelerator—the automaker plans to boost hybrid and plug‑in hybrid output by about 30% by 2028. For much of the past decade, the automotive industry was in agreement—the future was going to be electric. Any automaker that didn’t pivot away from a combustion future was making a strategic mistake. Automakers were caught up in the excitement, making bold statements about pure-EV lineups and committing to aggressive development timelines. New EV startups emerged, capturing sky-high valuations, and regulators signaled the end of internal combustion engines. Toyota looked out of step as it raised concerns about battery resources and charging infrastructure, while trying to sell electric cars beyond most consumers' budgets. What does today’s EV market look like? Today, the automotive segment looks very different. Electric vehicle sales, which were once increasing steadily, have cooled as EV momentum has slowed . At the same time, the average price of a new vehicle has skyrocketed—industry experts estimate that roughly one-third of Americans are now effectively priced out of buying a new car. This has put Toyota, a company that has focused on hybrids while the rest of the industry embraced full-electric vehicles, in an excellent position. The company offers hybrid models in nearly every segment, from the economy-oriented Prius and Camry family sedans to the popular RAV4 and Highlander crossover families . Toyota even offers a Tacoma pick-up with a hybrid option. For those who tow, the company offers a full-size Tundra pickup and a Sequoia with a hybrid powerplant—literally covering nearly every type of buyer. Its strategy was to help cost-conscious buyers achieve 30-50 percent better fuel economy with minimal lifestyle changes. And the vehicles are only marginally more expensive than their combustion-only counterparts. What is Toyota’s hybrid gamble? According to recent reports, Toyota is increasing output of its hybrid models (standard gasoline-electric hybrids and plug-in hybrid vehicles) by about 30% by 2028, to roughly 6.7 million units a year. If so, that would mean about 60 percent of its total vehicle production will be hybrid vehicles by the end of the decade. Toyota’s strategy is solid. As consumers back away from full-electric vehicles, wary of limited charging infrastructure, high retail pricing, and safety concerns, the company has positioned itself to attract shoppers who are risk-averse—choosing a hybrid over an EV isn’t just about being the first with innovative technology. It’s about convenience, safety, and household cash flow. What does this mean for consumers? Toyota’s hybrid gamble is a winning strategy, as it ensures product-market fit for consumers—the company is building the vehicles that showroom shoppers are seeking. It also helps retain high resale values , as the company’s portfolio includes combustion and hybrid offerings that have traditionally been strong on the secondary market compared to the volatile market for used electric vehicles. Bottom line: the company that once looked out of place appears to be winning.