Apple is moving on from iOS 26.3 . After several rounds of developer betas, the company released iOS 26.4 on Tuesday. iOS 26.4 includes early testing support for end-to-end encrypted RCS messaging, AI-generated playlists in Apple Music, changes to Stolen Device Protection , new video capabilities in Apple Podcasts and a handful of under-the-hood tweaks that signal where Apple is headed next. The update as a whole doesn't introduce anything as flashy as iOS 26's Liquid Glass redesign or its headline Apple Intelligence features , but it continues Apple's pattern for point releases: expanding features that were previously limited or hidden, beefing up privacy and security and laying the groundwork for things that won't fully arrive until later this year. To download the update, go to Settings > General > Software Update and select Update Now for iOS 26.4. Watch this: I'm Impressed With iOS 26. Apple Just Made iPhones Better 05:40 All the new features in iOS 26.4 The iOS 26.4 update adds a few notable changes and expands features Apple has been quietly testing. Early end-to-end encrypted RCS support: iOS 26.4 adds a toggle in Settings > Messages > RCS Messaging that lets developers test end-to-end encrypted RCS messaging inside the Messages app. When enabled, encrypted RCS chats will show a new lock icon in conversation threads. At the moment, the capability is limited -- it isn't available for all devices or carriers. This is not a full rollout, but is an early step toward encrypted RCS in a future update. Stolen Device Protection updates: Apple is turning on Stolen Device Protection automatically for all iPhone users instead of leaving it opt-in. This security feature, first introduced in 2023, requires Face ID or Touch ID (and in some cases a time delay) before someone can do things like view saved passwords, turn off Lost Mode, erase the device or change your Apple ID password when away from trusted locations. You can still disable it if you choose. Apple Music Playlist Playground: iOS 26.4 introduces Apple Music's new Playlist Playground, an Apple Intelligence-powered tool that lets you generate full playlists from text prompts (such as a chill rainy day mix). You can enter your own description or choose from built-in ideas, then tweak the generated playlist with further prompts. Apple Music also includes a new Concerts Near You feature and redesigned full-page artwork for albums and playlists. Video in Apple Podcasts: The Podcasts app supports video episodes, allowing you to switch between audio and video versions, stream shows and download video podcasts for offline viewing. iOS 26.4 also includes other minor new features and improvements, like a new unified Apple Account hub and the return of Notification Forwarding, as well as the usual round of bug fixes and performance optimizations typical of an early developer beta. The iPhone 17 supports iOS 26.4. Viva Tung/CNET Which iPhone models support iOS 26? As long as you own an iPhone 11 or newer, you can download iOS 26. That means the iPhone XR/XS generation is out, while every A13 Bionic handset forward, including the rumored forthcoming iPhone 17 models, will work. Apple Intelligence works only on compatible phones, which include any iPhone 16 model and the iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max.