Apple is moving forward with plans to roll out advertising on its Maps platform, appearing on devices like iPhones and the web version of the app as early as this summer. Bloomberg first reported on Apple's plans last October , and now Apple has confirmed it's a reality and part of a new platform called Apple Business , launching April 14, offering advertising opportunities across not only Maps but also Mail, Wallet and Siri. The advertising system, as far as Maps goes, would work similarly to Google Maps advertising. Slots would be available for brands or businesses to purchase and would be tied to search results in Maps. The Business platform that Apple is launching will be available in more than 200 countries and regions, according to the company. Ads in Maps will initially only roll out in the US and Canada this summer. The move is part of a larger plan to keep growing Apple's services business, which includes subscriptions like Apple TV Plus , as well as Apple News, iCloud and the App Store. While Apple's advertising business is a smart part of the company's revenue, services now account for a quarter of Apple's annual sales, reportedly more than $100 billion a year, according to a Bloomberg update . Apple Business will also include options for companies to buy upgraded iCloud storage and AppleCare Plus for Business; there will also be a dedicated Business app that lets companies manage Apple accounts and devices and assign apps and roles within an organization. What it means for Apple customers and competitors Google Maps has more users than Apple Maps -- depending on which report you look at, it could be twice as many or just a narrow lead , with Apple gaining significantly. But the way Apple handles ads in Maps is expected to be approached differently than Google Maps or Waze, with more integration across different products and devices and a less obtrusive feel. "Google wins on reach, but Apple is playing a different game," says Tim Berney, founder and CEO of Oklahoma City-based VI Marketing and Branding . "Apple will likely take a more subtle, integrated approach. Where Google Maps or Waze can feel more ad-driven, Apple will make it feel like a recommendation within the experience," Berney says. As far as the launch of Apple Business, Berney says that while this puts Apple in more direct competition with Google's ad business, it also has the advantage of Apple's entire ecosystem of third-party apps, device management platforms and software tailored for small businesses.