Every website and online platform does multi-factor authentication a little differently. Luckily, 2FAS offers helpful videos showing how to use the authenticator app with many popular services, including Amazon, Binance, Facebook, Gmail, Instagram, PayPal, and Snapchat. The 2FAS mobile app has a clean, simple user interface, with red accents on a white background by default. In the Appearance section of the app's Settings menu, you can adjust the app's look by switching the theme to dark or matching it to your device's settings. Get Our Best Stories! Stay Safe With the Latest Security News and Updates Sign up for our SecurityWatch newsletter for our most important privacy and security stories delivered right to your inbox. Sign up for our SecurityWatch newsletter for our most important privacy and security stories delivered right to your inbox. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! (Credit: 2FAS/PCMag) I like that you can arrange your tokens alphabetically or in a custom order. Long-pressing on the token on your dashboard opens the customization menu, where you can change the badge color, group, icon, and name for each entry. Create custom groups to further organize your account codes. You can also hide your tokens by default in the Settings menu. This setting prevents snoops from stealing tokens over your shoulder while you enter them. To use 2FAS to log in to an online account, enter the six-digit code generated by the app. I didn't have trouble attaching the authenticator to my test social media account, and it was easy to log in. 2FAS Browser Extension (Credit: 2FAS/PCMag) The 2FAS authenticator is also available as a browser extension. Here's how it works: When you go to a website with MFA enabled, you'll need to keep your phone with the 2FAS app handy to approve the token request. After you approve it on your phone, you'll copy and paste the token code into the MFA field in the browser. I tested this feature using Google Chrome. As advertised, I was able to log in to my test accounts without entering an MFA token. I recommend watching this tutorial to learn how to enable custom MFA notifications for your browser. You can't create new tokens using the browser extension. If 2FAS auto-filled the codes, eliminating any interaction with the authenticator beyond an approval request, I'd see more use for the browser extension, but as is, I think the mobile app is more helpful. If you're holding out for a desktop version of 2FAS, prepare for disappointment. According to 2FAS CEO Marek Bardzinski, storing TOTP secrets on a desktop computer is just asking for trouble. "It weakens the security model of two-factor authentication," said Bardzinski via email. "If a computer becomes compromised by malware, both the password and the 2nd factor could potentially be exposed from the same device." 2FAS's browser extension doesn't share your Secret Key with your computer; it only shares tokens with your phone. But what happens if your browser gets infected with malware ? There's a chance that a malicious extension could siphon up all of your browsing data, along with your MFA tokens . To reduce that possibility, frequently check your browser's extensions list, and remove any extensions you don't recognize, reset your browser to its default settings, and clear your browser's cache and cookies. Backing Up Account Information with 2FAS (Credit: 2FAS/PCMag) 2FAS can create cloud backups of your MFA tokens, which is crucial if you lose your phone or get a new one. The backup is encrypted; you can only access it from the 2FAS app. For Apple customers, backups are enabled by default and use iCloud Sync. Android users must manually enable Google Drive Sync to back up their tokens. You can add a layer of security to these backup files by setting a custom password in the Settings menu. Token Exporting and Importing Looking to switch from your old authenticator app to 2FAS? You can import your old tokens from competing apps, including Aegis, Google Authenticator, and Stratum. 2FAS doesn't generate generic token lists that can be easily imported to other apps, but some apps, like Aegis Authenticator, accept 2FAS export files.