A previously temporary Meta store is set to become a permanent location for shoppers to try Meta Quest VR headsets , smart glasses, and other demos. First opened in November last year, the location on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan launched as a short-term pop-up store, but Meta confirmed today its intention to keep it permanent, taking on a 10-year lease for the space. The brand is now referring to it as its second flagship store, following the opening of a 20,000-square-foot Los Angeles location last year. The NYC store's design will remain the same as when it was a pop-up, with skateboards adorning the walls and other art co-created by the brand and local artists. Meta says, “Over time, Meta Lab NYC will evolve to highlight elements of culture in NYC and beyond, so be sure to drop in often and check out what we’ll have to offer." Other services offered by the Meta Lab store include gadget customization, trials of new hardware, access to limited-edition releases, and a coffee bar. The interior of the NYC store (Credit: Meta) Meta’s creative director for wearables, Matt Jacobson, says, “Our people-first approach to experiential retail is rooted in culture, creativity, and self-expression — and it’s driving meaningful sales and awareness of our AI wearables. Placing our flagship store alongside the brands that help define culture will distinguish Meta Lab from traditional consumer electronics retail.” Recommended by Our Editors The store should be easy to spot at 697 Fifth Avenue, as it’s bright blue from the outside to match the Meta logo. Meta first launched a retail location in Burlingame, California, back in 2022 as a space for customers to try out Quest VR experiences. The brand's success in the wearable space saw it open its second permanent location in Los Angeles in late 2025, followed by pop-up stores in Honolulu, Hawaii, and Las Vegas, Nevada. Get Our Best Stories! Your Daily Dose of Our Top Tech News Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! About Our Expert Experience I’ve been a journalist for over a decade after getting my start in tech reporting back in 2013.  I joined PCMag in 2025, where I cover the latest developments across the tech sphere, writing about the gadgets and services you use every day. Be sure to send me any tips you think PCMag would be interested in. Read Full Bio