Amazon's Big Spring Sale is returning for the third year in a row, running for a full week from March 25 to March 31. You'll be able to shop deals on items across over 35 categories, with many tailored to springtime needs, including spring fashion essentials and lawn and garden items. CNBC Select covers Amazon's Big Spring Sale, what deals to expect and how to maximize savings with a Prime membership and the Prime Visa (see rates and fees ). Amazon's Big Spring Sale deals What is Amazon's Big Spring Sale? Amazon hosts several major sales over the course of the year, including Prime Day , which usually falls in July, and Prime Big Deal Days in October. Amazon's Big Spring Sale is similar in style but focuses on spring essentials, including everything from cleaning products to spring wardrobe staples to Easter decor. Amazon's Big Spring Sale is also relatively new, with the first sale having run in 2024. When is Amazon's Big Spring Sale? Amazon's 2026 Big Spring Sale starts at 12:01 a.m. PDT on March 25, 2026, and runs a full seven days, ending at 11:59 p.m. PDT on March 31, 2026. Do you need a Prime membership to shop the sale? Unlike some other Amazon sales events, you don't need an Amazon Prime membership to take advantage of Amazon's Big Spring Sale. But if you're a Prime member, you'll get access to exclusive savings on items marked with the "Prime Spring Deal" badge. You'll also enjoy standard Prime benefits like free, faster shipping — including same-day, one-day or two-day shipping, when available. What is the cheapest way to get Amazon Prime? Amazon offers several types of Prime memberships, and you may qualify for one that's heavily discounted. Prime for Young Adults Prime for Young Adults is available to 18- to 24-year-olds and college students. This membership is half the price of a regular Prime membership, charging $7.49 a month or $69 a year. Currently, you can take advantage of a six-month trial for $0 before fully committing. You'll get full Prime benefits and 5% cash back on eligible products within several categories: beauty, premium beauty, personal care, apparel, PCs and electronics. Amazon introduced cash back for young adults just last year, and shoppers have since earned over $145 million in rewards, per Prime spokesperson Eden Greenstein. Cash back earned is available as a gift card balance and can be applied as a payment method during checkout. TIP: During Amazon's Big Spring Sale, Prime for Young Adults members can earn up to 10% total cash back on apparel and beauty instead of the typical 5% back. Prime Access Amazon also offers discounted options for those enrolled in certain government assistance programs, like SNAP and Medicaid, or whose household income is at or below 200% of the Federal Poverty Guideline. Amazon Prime Access is over 50% cheaper than the standard membership at $6.99 a month and still provides the same benefits, including the ability to share certain benefits with those in your Amazon Family. There's also a 30-day free trial for new customers. Amazon Family If someone in your household (living at your same address) has a standard Prime membership or membership through Prime Access, you can share their benefits at no extra cost by creating an Amazon Family. This lets you link an additional adult account and up to four children. Get additional perks with the Prime Visa card The Prime Visa (see rates and fees ), issued by Chase, is a no-annual-fee cash back credit card that rewards you on Amazon purchases. You'll earn 5% cash back at Amazon.com, but also on Amazon Fresh, Whole Foods Market and Chase Travel purchases. The card does require a Prime membership in order to earn the highest rates of cash back, but you'll get a $150 Amazon Gift Card instantly upon approval, exclusively for Prime members — no spending required. Most applications are approved within a matter of seconds, and you can then use that gift card on any of your Big Spring Sale finds. Alternatively, you can opt to take advantage of a 0% promo APR for six months on purchases of $50 or more or 12 months on purchases of $250 or more when you use the Prime Visa for purchases at Amazon.com (18.74% to 27.49% variable APR thereafter). Say you need to buy a new cordless vacuum, one of which is currently 25% off ahead of the sale . If you purchase it with the Prime Visa, you can either earn 5% cash back on your purchase, cover it with the automatic $150 gift card (as a new cardmember) or finance it at a 0% APR over the course of six months. $0 (but Prime membership is required) Get a $150 Amazon Gift Card Our expert take The Prime Visa is only available to Amazon Prime members ($139 for an annual membership and $14.99 for a monthly membership) but is very rewarding for Amazon purchases. Pros & cons High rate of return at Amazon and Whole Foods Easy-to-earn welcome bonus Requires an Amazon Prime membership If you choose the promo APR you won't earn rewards on those purchases More details Highlights Highlights shown here are provided by the issuer and have not been reviewed by CNBC Select's editorial staff. Get a $150 Amazon Gift Card instantly upon approval exclusively for Prime members Earn unlimited 5% back at Amazon.com, Amazon Fresh, Whole Foods Market and on Chase Travel purchases with an eligible Prime membership Prime Card Bonus: Earn 10% back or more on a rotating selection of items and categories on Amazon.com with an eligible Prime membership Earn unlimited 2% back at gas stations, restaurants, and on local transit and commuting (including rideshare) Earn unlimited 1% back on all other purchases No annual credit card fee No more waiting. Redeem daily rewards at Amazon.com as soon as the next day Member FDIC Balance transfer fee Either $5 or 4% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater Subscribe to the CNBC Select Newsletter! Money matters — so make the most of it. Get expert tips, strategies, news and everything else you need to maximize your money, right to your inbox. Sign up here . Why trust CNBC Select? At CNBC Select, our mission is to provide our readers with high-quality service journalism and comprehensive consumer advice so they can make informed decisions with their money. Every personal finance article is based on rigorous reporting by our team of expert writers and editors with extensive knowledge of personal finance products . While CNBC Select earns a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links, we create all our content without input from our commercial team or any outside third parties, and we pride ourselves on our journalistic standards and ethics. Catch up on CNBC Select's in-depth coverage of credit cards , banking and money , and follow us on TikTok , Facebook , Instagram and X to stay up to date. Editorial Note: Opinions, analyses, reviews or recommendations expressed in this article are those of the Select editorial staff’s alone, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any third party.