UiPath Inc. (NYSE: PATH ) shares are slightly down on Wednesday. Today, the company launched new agentic AI solutions for financial crime investigations, retail and manufacturing operations and speeding up procurement workflows. New Agentic Automation Solutions UiPath stated that the solution will automate financial crime investigations and streamline loan origination and compliance workflows. The company targets operational efficiency and a smoother borrower experience. The company notes that loan origination still relies on manual data entry, paper-based documents, and human review during underwriting at many lenders. UiPath’s new solution will also help retailers and manufacturers compile data across fragmented systems so they can automate merchandising, pricing, and inventory workflows . UiPath highlighted specific packaged offerings. This includes a UiPath Solution for merchandising on the retail side and manufacturing-focused tools. Apart from this, the company says its new UiPath Solution for Purchase-to-Pay is positioned to reduce operational costs by automating exception handling and orchestrating end-to-end procurement and accounts payable workflows across systems of record like ERP and CRM . The product adds an agentic execution layer above those systems, combining AI agents, automation workflows, and orchestration to cut manual effort and processing costs. Microsoft Security Automation The partnership combines automation with built-in security and governance, allowing organizations to automate threat detection and response workflows across platforms like Microsoft Defender for Cloud and Microsoft Sentinel. This collaboration is designed to help enterprises scale their automation efforts while ensuring compliance and security, ultimately reducing the mean time to resolve security incidents. PATH Technical Analysis The broader market saw gains on Tuesday, with the Technology sector rising 1.27%. UiPath’s positive movement aligns with this trend, indicating that the stock is moving in tandem with the overall sector performance. The stock is currently trading 2.4% below its 20-day simple moving average (SMA) and 20.1% below its 100-day SMA, demonstrating longer-term weakness. Shares have decreased by 2.38% over the past 12 months and are currently positioned closer to their 52-week lows than highs. PATH Earnings UiPath is slated to provide its next financial update on May 28, 2026 (estimated). EPS Estimate : 11 cents (Up from 11 cents YoY) Revenue Estimate : $397.46 million (Up from $356.62 million YoY) Valuation : P/E of 21.3x (Indicates fair valuation) Analyst Consensus & Recent Actions: The stock carries a Hold Rating with an average price target of $14.24. Recent analyst moves include: BMO Capital : Market Perform (Lowers Target to $14.00) (Mar. 16) UBS : Neutral (Lowers Target to $13.00) (Mar. 12) Canaccord Genuity : Buy (Lowers Target to $15.00) (Mar. 12) PATH Stock Price Activity: UiPath shares were up 0.99% at $11.18 during premarket trading on Wednesday, according to Benzinga Pro data . Photo via Shutterstock