The AI revolution has minted a new generation of scorching-hot tech stocks. You know them as the Magnificent 7 . Investors also know them as the elite, market-cap-heavy group capable of moving the entire market. But which company stands above the rest? The answer can rotate on a given day, and that uncertainty has to end. In honor of NCAA March Madness, we're going to crown a true champion. The bracket above will get us there. It features the Magnificent 7, plus honorary entrant Palantir , which is a retail favorite with a unique AI story of its own. All we need now are your votes. (My colleague Dan DeFrancesco is doing a bracket for BI Today focused on business trends. You can check his out over here .) The deciding prompt for each matchup is straightforward: Which stock would you rather own for the next 10 years? As for the seeding, there are no favorites being played here — it was done strictly by market cap. The resulting matchups ended up enticing, with good narratives attached to each. Here's a breakdown: (1) Nvidia vs. (8) Palantir AI king vs. AI cult favorite. We've got the most valuable company in the world — and the biggest chipmaker — going against a government-contract giant. Can Palantir's fervent retail-investor base carry it to a shocking first-round upset? Voting is open now. Click here to make your pick. (4) Microsoft vs. (5) Amazon A battle of cloud empires. Azure vs. AWS. Will voters favor Microsoft's AI-forward business, which features a deep partnership with OpenAI? Or will they be swayed by Amazon's monstrous AI-infrastructure platform? This one could go either way, folks. Voting opens: Wednesday, March 18 (2) Apple vs. (7) Tesla Hardware icon vs. visionary disrupter. Apple is trying to make up ground in the AI race through partnerships. Tesla is pivoting its business towards AI and robotaxis. Will voters opt for steady dominance or tantalizing upside? Voting opens: Monday, March 23 (3) Alphabet vs. (6) Meta A tussle between two ad giants. Alphabet, which stormed the gates of the AI trade in late 2025, is more diversified. Meta is more of a pure-play AI stock after successfully pivoting away from the metaverse. They're both spending a ton on capex. Your pick here will likely depend on your long-term view on AI Voting opens: Thursday, March 26