A driverless Tesla Cybercab working its way through Los Angeles drew the attention and derision of a pair of drivers who spotted it and started filming. TikTok user themiddlelanes drew 253,000 views of a video in which the duo roasted the Cybercab for a number of reasons. The footage shows the compact vehicle navigating traffic while the men follow, commenting on its unusual proportions and design . “Why is it so… it’s really thin. It’s almost like a shopping cart,” one of the men remarked in the clip. 'No mirrors' As the video continues, the pair focus on specific design elements, including the absence of traditional features. “Look, there’s no mirrors,” one noted, adding, “it’s camera only.” Tesla has increasingly leaned into camera-based systems for both driver assistance and its Full Self-Driving (FSD) software , a decision that has set it apart from competitors that rely on lidar and other sensors. The pair also criticized build quality issues, pointing out the rear of the vehicle. “Zoom in at the alignment on the rear trunk. That’s appalling,” one says. The other chips in: “Those panel gaps are tremendous. You could fit Lithuania in that panel gap. The entire Baltic states in there." Tesla has faced past criticism over panel gaps and manufacturing consistency. Finally, one of the men exclaimed: “There's a man in it,” before noting, "it looks good for the run." The 'ugliest cars' Commentators on the video were generally amused and loved the commentary amid almost 600 remarks. "I want these two to narrate my entire day," a fan declared. "Tesla working overtime to make the most ' futuristic ' ugliest cars," a critic quipped. One individual quipped that, "the panel gaps are how you know it's a Tesla. More distinct brand than most car badges." Finally, one pundit wondered: "How the hell is it being allowed on the road without mirrors? That’s not a roadworthy vehicle in the eyes of the [ Department of Motor Vehicles ]." Smaller and Narrower Tesla’s Cybercab appears significantly smaller and narrower than the Model Y, according to a size comparison noted by Teslarati . Images circulating online show the Cybercab with a slimmer profile and a more compact footprint. The comparison also shows that the Cybercab is different from Tesla’s current lineup, particularly the Model Y, which is one of the company’s best-selling vehicles globally. The Cybercab appears designed mainly for short-distance, potentially shared rides . Newsweek has reached out to themiddlelanes for comment via TikTok .