Several class action settlements are approaching key deadlines this spring, giving consumers a limited window to file claims for cash payments or refunds. Here's a quick breakdown of notable upcoming settlements, including who is eligible, how much money could be made available and the exact deadlines to know. Target Wage Transparency Settlement (Deadline: March 31) Target agreed to pay up to $2.225 million to resolve a class action lawsuit alleging the retailer violated Washington State’s Equal Pay and Opportunities Act by failing to include required pay ranges and benefits information in job postings. The settlement covers folks in Washington State who applied for Target positions between January 1, 2023, and July 26, 2025, where postings did not disclose salary ranges or benefits. Eligible class members who submit a valid claim by March 31 could receive an estimated payment of about $1,711, though the final amount may vary depending on how many claims are filed and other variables. Target did not admit wrongdoing as part of the agreement. American Express Antitrust Settlement (Deadline: May 19) American Express reached a $17.5 million antitrust settlement over allegations that its merchant rules prevented businesses from steering customers toward lower‑fee payment methods, ultimately increasing prices for consumers. Settlement claims can only be filed by individuals who fall into two specific groups: One group is Illinois residents who used no annual fee credit cards from Visa, Mastercard or Discover (that are non‑rewards) at qualifying merchants between January 29, 2016, and June 1, 2022. The second group is for consumers who are Visa or Mastercard debit card holders who used that brand's debit card for a purchase at qualifying merchants in Alabama, the District of Columbia, Illinois, Kansas, Maine, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oregon or Utah between Jan. 29, 2015, and June 1, 2022. Claimants must submit a form by May 19, 2026, to be eligible for a payment. LifeLock / Norton Robocall Settlement (Deadline: April 13) Gen Digital, the parent company of LifeLock and Norton, agreed to a $9.95 million settlement to resolve claims it violated federal law by sending out unsolicited phone calls that used artificial or prerecorded voices. The Norton settlement applies to consumers who received a call regarding a LifeLock or Norton account from Gen Digital between Feb. 19, 2021, and Oct. 30, 2025, that used an artificial or prerecorded voice, but who did not have a LifeLock or Norton account with Gen Digital. Consumers nationwide may qualify if they received robocalls about LifeLock or Norton accounts without being customers between February 19, 2021, and October 30, 2025. Norton and LifeLock are services that provide identity theft protection, monitor accounts for signs of fraud, and more. Eligible claimants who file by April 13, 2026, could receive between $200 and $625, depending on the number of approved claims. Panda Express Data Breach Settlement (Deadline: April 10) Panda Restaurant Group, the parent company of Panda Express, agreed to a $2.45 million settlement following a data breach that exposed sensitive personal information, like Social Security numbers, back in 2023. U.S. consumers who received a data breach notification may claim up to $5,000 for documented losses or a pro‑rata cash payment estimated at around $100 without documentation. Claims must be submitted by April 10, 2026. Amazon Prime Subscription Refunds (Rolling Deadline) The Federal Trade Commission has accused Amazon of misleading millions of customers into signing up for Amazon Prime without their clear consent and then making it difficult for them to cancel. According to the FTC , Amazon used confusing checkout screens and prompts that led some shoppers to enroll in Prime without realizing they had agreed to a paid subscription. Once customers tried to cancel, the agency says Amazon put up unnecessary hurdles designed to keep them subscribed. Amazon agreed to settle the lawsuit, resulting in a $2.5 billion deal. Under the settlement, the company will pay $1.5 billion in refunds to affected customers, a $1 billion civil penalty, and must change how it handles Prime sign‑ups and cancellations. Eligible U.S. customers may receive refunds of Prime fees, up to $51, depending on their usage and subscription history. In a polarized era, the center is dismissed as bland. At Newsweek , ours is different: The Courageous Center—it's not "both sides," it's sharp, challenging and alive with ideas. We follow facts, not factions. If that sounds like the kind of journalism you want to see thrive, we need you. When you become a Newsweek Member , you support a mission to keep the center strong and vibrant. Members enjoy: Ad-free browsing, exclusive content and editor conversations. Help keep the center courageous. Join today.