The directions aim to strengthen EV infrastructure, encourage cleaner transport, and provide financial relief to consumers. Haryana has directed discoms to install new electrical vehicle (EV) charging stations across Panchkula, Faridabad, Panipat, Karnal and Gurgaon to boost electric mobility. Moreover, in a consumer-friendly move, the commission has also approved a 5 per cent rebate on both energy and fixed charges for users with prepaid smart meters. Haryana has around 920 public EV charging stations, with the district leading with over 150 stations. Gurgaon has the highest charging stations density in the state at 0.11 stations per square kilometre and is a pilot city for the initiative. HERC said discoms must facilitate the setting up of charging stations by increasing system capacity and expanding their network, with funding available through revamped distribution sector scheme (RDSS). To accelerate deployment, discoms were directed to provide electricity connection to public charging stations within seven days. “The directions aim to strengthen EV infrastructure, encourage cleaner transport, and provide financial relief to consumers,” said a DHBVN official. Jatin Gulati, a resident who is driving an EV for the past year, said the increase in charging station will encourage adoption of the environment-friendly alternative. “There are private players in EV charging station, but entry of govt agency in this segment will help in maintaining affordability,” said Jatin. The directions were part of HERC order dated March 25, 2026, in which commission decided not to increase electricity tariffs for the financial year 2026-27, providing major relief to the industrial sector in the state. This decision comes at a time when power distribution companies, in their annual revenue requirement (ARR), cited a revenue gap of approximately ₹4,500 crore and sought an increase in electricity tariffs. Rejecting this demand, the commission directed the companies to improve operational efficiency and reduce line losses to bridge their revenue deficit. Progressive Federation of Trade and Industry (PFTI) chairperson Deepak Maini said absence of any tariff increase is a major relief for industries. However, he expressed disappointment over the non-acceptance of the proposal to reduce the fixed charge of ₹290 per kVA. Published On Mar 27, 2026 at 10:44 AM IST Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals. Subscribe to Newsletter to get latest insights & analysis in your inbox. All about ETAuto industry right on your smartphone!