Amazon is testing a new program that lets shoppers get Prime shipping benefits on other websites, without ever logging into an Amazon account. The initiative, described as a "Confidential Product" in seller invitations seen by Business Insider, is being piloted with a small group of merchants who use Amazon's multi-channel fulfillment services . The MCF lets third-party sellers use Amazon's fulfillment network to pick, pack, and deliver orders from external websites, like their own online store or other marketplaces. The pitch: Direct-to-consumer brands can offer Prime shipping on their own sites without requiring a Prime login, while retaining control over the checkout process. Amazon, meanwhile, validates and syncs Prime user accounts in the background. "Confidential Product enables your DTC customers who are Prime members to receive fast, free Prime shipping directly on your website — without needing to sign into Amazon Prime," Amazon's email invitation said. "This pilot program works seamlessly with your existing checkout flow and all payment methods while maintaining your control over customer data and branding." The experiment underscores Amazon's broader strategy of embedding its logistics infrastructure across the wider web, even when transactions don't occur on its own platform. If successful, the program could extend the reach of Prime, and Amazon's fulfillment business, to gain a larger share of business with independent sellers. The move could also pressure Shopify , which offers tools that power many direct-to-consumer brands. By offering Prime-level logistics directly within merchants' own sites, Amazon is encroaching on a key part of Shopify's value proposition. The test is being run by the team behind Buy with Prime , Amazon's effort to enable Prime orders on sites outside its online marketplace. But the new pilot removes a key friction point in that program that requires the shoppers to sign in to their Amazon accounts when placing an order. "We are always innovating on behalf of customers, including testing new features to see what works best for them," an Amazon spokesperson told Business Insider. "This pilot gives a small group of Multichannel Fulfillment merchants a convenient way to offer fast, free Prime delivery to delight their shoppers while also giving Prime members more places to use their membership benefits." The invitation was sent to a narrow subset of sellers with established off-Amazon businesses, according to Noah Wickham, VP of sales and marketing at My Amazon Guy, an e-commerce consulting agency. Several recipients said their own websites generate more sales than their Amazon storefronts, suggesting the pilot is targeting brands that have resisted deeper integration with Amazon's ecosystem, Wickham said. "This is Amazon's push to target buyers who don't typically use Amazon's platform — through sellers who have a larger direct-to-consumer presence than on Amazon," Wickham told Business Insider. That focus reflects a broader challenge Amazon has faced as it tries to expand its logistics services beyond its own marketplace. While its fulfillment network is a major competitive advantage, many brands have been wary of ceding customer relationships and diluting their brand identity. By removing the login requirement and minimizing Amazon branding, the company appears to be addressing those concerns. "Keeps you in control of the brand by allowing you to keep your established shopper patterns such as free shipping thresholds, subscription orders, multi-unit cart building, and flexibility to match your own DTC store policies for returns and customer service," the invitation said. Have a tip? Contact this reporter via email at ekim@businessinsider.com or Signal, Telegram, or WhatsApp at 650-942-3061 . Use a personal email address, a nonwork WiFi network, and a nonwork device; here's our guide to sharing information securely .