Nvidia has used its DLSS technology across several GPU generations to upscale lower-resolution images in our favorite games. At CES 2026, Nvidia introduced DLSS 4.5 , along with Multi Frame Generation 6X, to reduce unwanted artifacts, improve overall image quality, and smooth frame pacing. But just as soon as DLSS 4.5 was introduced, Nvidia has now given us a brief preview of the next-generation: DLSS 5. According to Nvidia, this is the single most significant advancement in computer graphics since the introduction of ray tracing eight years ago. Image 1 of 6 (Image credit: Tom's Hardware) (Image credit: Tom's Hardware) (Image credit: Tom's Hardware) (Image credit: Tom's Hardware) (Image credit: Tom's Hardware) (Image credit: Tom's Hardware) DLSS 5 fundamentals are based on a new real-time neural rendering model that greatly ramps up photorealism in games by combining "photoreal lighting" and lifelike materials. Gone are the somewhat flat, uncanny-valley facial details on character models, and in their place are vastly superior hyper-realistic replacements. Nvidia promises that these improved visuals will enable ultra-smooth gameplay at up to 4K resolution. Article continues below NVIDIA DLSS 5 Reveal | Starfield - YouTube Watch On Go deeper with TH Premium: AI shortages According to Nvidia, unlike Video AI models, which must run offline and can produce unpredictable output, DLSS 5 operates in real time, using a game engine's motion vectors and source color as inputs for its AI model. Those inputs are then used to combine the aforementioned photoreal lighting and materials, delivering consistent performance frame-to-frame. DLSS 5 has been trained to apply its visual enhancements across various model details, including hair, skin, and even fabric. Given that DLSS 4.5 was just introduced earlier this year, we still have quite a long runway before we reach DLSS 5. Nvidia is targeting a "Fall 2026" launch for DLSS 5, and it currently has some heavy hitters in the industry on board, including Ubisoft, Bethesda, Capcom, Tencent, and Warner Bros. Games (among others). Games currently on deck to receive DLSS 5 enhancements include: AION 2 Assassin’s Creed Shadows Black State CINDER CITY Delta Force Hogwarts Legacy Justice NARAKA: BLADEPOINT NTE: Neverness to Everness Phantom Blade Zero Resident Evil Requiem Sea of Remnants Starfield The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion Remastered Where Winds Meet Get Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.