If you’re on the hunt for a well-priced upgrade to your gaming setup, Newegg has you covered with an epic deal on a CyberPowerPC rig. You can pick up this pre-built gaming PC for just $2,259 , giving you a huge $290 saving on a machine with the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D, one of the best-performing gaming CPUs out there right now, along with an AMD Radeon RX 9070 XT. Along with 32GB of DDR5 RAM and a 2TB SSD, you’re getting a very well spec’d PC that will cover you for gaming at 4K at high frame rates. There simply isn’t a better alternative to X3D chips from AMD, with the 9800X3D close to the top of the pile. The RX 9070 XT is another AMD powerhouse, too, and sits at the top of our best GPU recommendations as the perfect all-rounder for gamers. First, however, is that stonkingly good CPU. Only just dethroned by the 9850X3D , the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D continues to be an exceptionally impressive CPU for gaming. Our CPU benchmarks demonstrate just what a powerhouse the 9800X3D is, with performance outstripping anything Intel has to offer, and sitting only 3% slower than the 9850X3D, despite that CPU requiring 30% more power. Image 1 of 11 (Image credit: Tom's Hardware) (Image credit: Tom's Hardware) (Image credit: Tom's Hardware) (Image credit: Tom's Hardware) (Image credit: Tom's Hardware) (Image credit: Tom's Hardware) (Image credit: Tom's Hardware) (Image credit: Tom's Hardware) (Image credit: Tom's Hardware) (Image credit: Tom's Hardware) (Image credit: Tom's Hardware) It’s all down to the magic of AMD’s 3D V-cache technology. All eight of its cores have access to 96MB of L3 cache, which reduces latency by minimizing how often the CPU has to fall back to slower system RAM, leaving you with significantly higher and more stable frame rates in-game. This processor is an absolute steal to find in a pre-built gaming PC at this price point, and ensures that you don't have to worry about performance compromises. The AMD Radeon RX 9070 XT, meanwhile, is a great complement to the 9800X3D. As our RX 9070 XT review explains, it delivers a real performance boost over older AMD GPUs, shipping with 64 RDNA 4 compute units and 16GB of GDDR6 VRAM on a 254-bit memory bus, operating at a memory speed of 20 Gbps. This easily rivals the Nvidia GeForce RTX 5070 Ti, with specs that will smash through the high frame rates at 1080p and 1440p. 4K could require some tweaks to your graphics settings, depending on the game, but the extra memory will give you plenty of breathing room compared to cheaper GPUs with 8GB or 12GB of VRAM. There are few compromises to be found elsewhere in this build, either. A 2TB NVMe SSD is included, leaving you a great amount of extra storage for your games, apps, movies, and photos. 32GB of DDR5 RAM isn’t a bottleneck, either, and the lifespan of a rig with these specs means you’ve got room to upgrade to 64GB later. You've also got a copy of the game Crimson Desert, worth $70, thrown in for free, too. This CyberPowerPC rig is extremely powerful, gorgeous to look at, and with a sale price of only $2,259 , is an absolute must-buy. You won’t find many rigs with these specs priced so low, and we’ll expect this one to sell out fast, so if you’re interested, you'd best be quick. If you're looking for more savings, check out our Best PC Hardware deals for a range of products, or dive deeper into our specialized SSD and Storage Deals, Hard Drive Deals , Gaming Monitor Deals , Graphics Card Deals , Gaming Chair , Best Wi-Fi Routers , Best Motherboard, or CPU Deals pages.