Meta is removing end-to-end (E2E) encryption for Instagram DMs after first rolling out the feature in late 2023. E2E encryption means that no one except the two parties messaging each other can read the message logs, including government entities, law enforcement, or even Meta itself. The good news is that users will still be able to use E2E encryption on WhatsApp, where it is enabled by default, and on Facebook Messenger, where it is enabled automatically for personal messages (but not group or business messages). The social media platform will end support for the feature on May 8. According to its official support page , users can download any media or messages they may want to keep from the impacted chats until then; otherwise, they may lose access to their messages. You may need to upgrade to a newer version of your app to download your data. The feature never became available in many regions outside the US, and E2E chats needed to be enabled manually. In a statement to PCMag, a Meta spokesperson said it opted to remove the feature because “very few people were opting in to end-to-end encrypted messaging in DMs.” “Anyone who wants to keep messaging with end-to-end encryption can easily do that on WhatsApp,” they added. Recommended by Our Editors Meta’s choice to add E2E to Instagram had attracted controversy. In a case brought by New Mexico Attorney General Raúl Torrez, lawyers alleged that the company “knew that E2E would make its platforms less safe by preventing it from detecting and reporting child sexual exploitation and the solicitation and distribution of child exploitation images sent in encrypted messages.” Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg gave testimony in a deposition as part of the case last month. Meanwhile, Nevada’s attorney general dubbed the addition of E2E “irresponsible,” claiming it “drastically impedes law enforcement.” Many of Meta’s peers may now be choosing to avoid adding E2E to their social media platforms altogether. TikTok recently told the BBC it was not planning to add E2E to its platform, as it believes the technology stops police and safety teams from reading direct messages if needed. Get Our Best Stories! Your Daily Dose of Our Top Tech News Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! About Our Expert Experience I’m a reporter covering weekend news. Before joining PCMag in 2024, I picked up bylines in BBC News, The Guardian, The Times of London, The Daily Beast, Vice, Slate, Fast Company, The Evening Standard, The i, TechRadar, and Decrypt Media. I’ve been a PC gamer since you had to install games from multiple CD-ROMs by hand. As a reporter, I’m passionate about the intersection of tech and human lives. I’ve covered everything from crypto scandals to the art world, as well as conspiracy theories, UK politics, and Russia and foreign affairs. Read Full Bio