If you're a movie lover, film buff, or any other appreciative term, Sunday, March 15, is your big night. It's then that the Academy Awards will once again celebrate the actors, directors, writers, musicians, and other creatives who make magic on the silver screen. You can check out the show using a live TV streaming service . After all, this year's Oscar nominees have something for everyone, including high-speed motorsport thrills and an adaptation of a classic Gothic novel. So, before you watch the Oscars, watch the movies nominated for Best Picture and other popular categories using our recommended video streaming services and VPNs . The Best Video Streaming Services for Watching Oscar-Nominated Movies Bugonia (Peacock) In Bugonia , Earth is under attack by hidden aliens led by Emma Stone. Or are all the happenings just a delusion? Find out the truth by streaming Bugonia on Peacock . F1 (Apple TV) Forget Nascar: If you feel the need for speed, you watch Formula One racing. F1: The Movie dramatizes the motorsport with heavy-hitters like Brad Pitt and Javier Bardem. You can stream F1 on Apple TV . Frankenstein (Netflix) We all know the story of Frankenstein, but director Guillermo Del Toro’s singular gothic aesthetic and love for misunderstood monsters make this an unmissable adaptation. Frankenstein is available on Netflix . Hamnet (Buy/Rent) The Chloé Zhao-directed Hamnet proposes that William Shakespeare's great personal tragedies gave rise to his greatest plays. You can buy or rent it from services like Prime Video ; it's expected to be available on Peacock later this year. Marty Supreme (Buy/Rent) Sometimes, all you need to succeed is a dream and ping-pong balls . The Timothée Chalamet-led Marty Supreme must be seen to be believed. You can buy or rent Marty Supreme from Apple TV and other video streaming services. One Battle After Another (HBO Max) One Battle After Another is an absurd epic for our absurd times, blending tense action with galvanizing politics, unexpected slapstick, and heartfelt family drama. Join the fight and watch the film on HBO Max . The Secret Agent (Buy/Rent) Written and directed by Kleber Mendonça Filho , The Secret Agent is a story of intrigue, escape, and resistance set against the backdrop of the Brazilian military dictatorship. You can buy or rent The Secret Agent from Prime Video and other platforms. Sentimental Value (Buy/Rent) Estranged family members reunite in Sentimental Value , a Norwegian film that has also racked up an impressive number of nominations. Rent or purchase Sentimental Value on Amazon Prime Video . Recommended by Our Editors Sinners (HBO Max) With 16 Oscar nominations, Sinners now holds the record for the most ever. So if you haven't already seen Ryan Coogler's blood-soaked ode to Black art , fire up HBO Max and fix that. Train Dreams (Netflix) Train Dreams follows the long life of a man (played by Joel Edgerton ) who seeks purpose in the early-20th-century United States. Stream Train Dreams on Netflix . Best Actor in a Leading Role Timothée Chalamet - Marty Supreme ( Buy/Rent ) Get Our Best Stories! Your Daily Dose of Our Top Tech News Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! Leonardo DiCaprio - One Battle After Another ( HBO Max ) Ethan Hawke - Blue Moon ( Buy/Ren t ) Michael B. Jordan - Sinners ( HBO Max ) Wagner Moura - The Secret Agent ( Buy/Rent ) Best Actress in a Leading Role Jessie Buckley - Hamnet ( Buy/Rent ) Rose Byrne - If I Had Legs I'd Kick You ( HBO Max ) Kate Hudson - Song Sung Blue ( Buy/Rent ) Renate Reinsve - Sentimental Value ( Buy/Rent ) Emma Stone - Bugonia ( Peacock ) Best Actor in a Supporting Role Benicio Del Toro - One Battle After Another ( HBO Max ) Jacob Elordi - Frankenstein ( Netflix ) Delroy Lindo - Sinners ( HBO Max ) Sean Penn - One Battle After Another ( HBO Max ) Stellan Skarsgård - Sentimental Value ( Buy/Rent ) Best Actress in a Supporting Role Elle Fanning - Sentimental Value ( Buy/Rent ) Inga Ibsdotter Lilleaas - Sentimental Value ( Buy/Rent ) Amy Madigan - Weapons ( HBO Max ) Wunmi Mosaku - Sinners ( HBO Max ) Teyana Taylor - One Battle After Another ( HBO Max ) Best Director Chloé Zhao - Hamnet ( Buy/Rent ) Josh Safdie - Marty Supreme ( Buy/Rent ) Paul Thomas Anderson - One Battle After Another ( HBO Max ) Joachim Trier - Sentimental Value ( Buy/Rent ) Ryan Coogler - Sinners ( HBO Max ) Best Visual Effects Best Music (Original Score) Best Music (Original Song) "Dear Me" from Diane Warren: Relentless ( Kanopy ) "Golden" from KPop Demon Hunters ( Netflix ) "I Lied To You" from Sinners ( HBO Max ) "Sweet Dreams of Joy" from Viva Verdi! ( Jolt Films ) "Train Dreams" from Train Dreams ( Netflix ) Best Animated Feature Film Best Documentary Feature The Alabama Solution ( HBO Max ) Come See Me in the Good Light ( Apple TV ) Cutting Through Rocks (in Theaters) Mr. Nobody Against Putin ( Buy/Rent ) The Perfect Neighbor ( Netflix ) Best International Film Best Documentary Short Film Best Animated Short Best Live Action Short Film The Best VPNs for Watching Oscar-Nominated Movies Do you live in an area where it's difficult to watch the Oscar-nominated movies? You could benefit from using a VPN. With one, you can spoof your computer's location, opening the door to worldwide streaming content. Not all video streaming services are compatible with all VPNs, but the ones listed above are a good place to start. For more on streaming, learn more about the apps that can help you find what to watch . About Our Expert Jordan Minor Senior Writer, Software Experience My PCMag career began in 2013 as an intern. Now, I'm a senior writer, using the skills I acquired at Northwestern University to write about dating apps, meal kits, programming software, website builders, video streaming services, and video games. I was previously a senior editor at Geek.com and have written for The A.V. Club, Kotaku, and Paste Magazine. I'm the author of the gaming history book Video Game of the Year: A Year-by-Year Guide to the Best, Boldest, and Most Bizarre Games from Every Year Since 1977 , and the reason everything you know about Street Sharks is a lie. Read Full Bio