Samsung foldables have been around for years, but later this year, they might face some real competition from Apple. The company is reportedly prepping three high-end products, including an iPhone that folds and unfolds. Rumors tip a crease-free display, in-display sensors, and a price tag of at least $2,000 ( but possibly $2,400 ). That would be an increase over Samsung’s $1,999 Galaxy Z Fold 7 and Google’s Pixel 10 Pro Fold , which starts at $1,799. According to Bloomberg's Mark Gurman , the phone’s outer display would measure 5.5 inches. But unfold the phone, and you’ll see a 7.8-inch display. Think of it as a phone that transforms into an iPad mini when unfolded. It would use a book-style design that opens horizontally, rather than a clamshell that folds and unfolds vertically like a flip phone. PCMag-Recommended Foldable Phones $799.99 at
                                                Amazon $1,299.99 Save $500.00 See It Other rumored features include four cameras —two on the front and two on the back, a 5,000mAh or higher battery, and Touch ID instead of Face ID. To no surprise, the phone would be eSIM-only, same as with the last several generations of the regular iPhone. Motorola Razr Fold Early Look: Sleek Design to Take On Samsung Foldable phones seem like an innovative and potentially helpful twist on the traditional smartphone. Even with big-screen phones like the iPhone Pro Max series, playing games, watching videos, or multitasking isn’t as satisfying as on a larger tablet. Apple is certainly hoping that enough customers will be lined up to buy a foldable iPhone once it arrives. Yes, a foldable iPhone sounds intriguing. As a tech journalist, I’m curious to see and try one out in the stores. But I won’t be adding one to my shopping cart. And here are several reasons why: 1. Too Expensive First and foremost is the price tag. As the prices on the iPhone have ticked higher and higher over the years, I’ve had to spend more than $1,000 and then some for the latest model. Since I use the phone for personal and professional reasons, I’ve been able to justify the pain to my wallet. I typically hold onto an iPhone for two years before replacing it, and then give my previous model to my wife. I can live with that arrangement. But if a foldable iPhone really does come in at $2,000 and close to $2,500, that’s where I’d draw the line. I can’t see myself paying that much for a phone I’d probably replace in two or more years as newer, more advanced models come out. Of course, the cost might drop over time, but that's just another reason to wait for later versions. 2. New and Untested With flaws affecting the initial foldable phones, Apple certainly made a smart decision to wait until it could fine-tune the construction and other elements. But this will still be a first-generation model. That means there are bound to be certain features that don’t work as promised. Sure, I do pick up new, untested tech gadgets, typically so I can write about them. But I’d rather not go through the hassles of being among the first to grapple with a foldable iPhone. 3. Durability Foldable phones have faced issues with screen creases. Not only has the crease been visible, but it has also led to tiny cracks in some phones . Apple is said to have solved the screen-crease issue. But a phone that you keep folding and unfolding is still likely to experience some wear. I’d prefer to view a clean display without any physical impediments. 4. Touch ID One reported spec leaves me cold. I rely on Face ID for authentication and have been quite happy with it. One of my pet peeves with my iPad mini is its lack of Face ID. If the rumors are true about the foldable iPhone, I don’t want to have to return to Touch ID on my main mobile device. 5. Foldability Doesn't Thrill Me The idea of a foldable phone sounds cool. And as I said, it has a practical purpose: you can work and play better on the larger screen. But foldability isn’t a selling point for me. Whether I’m at home or traveling, I typically have my iPad Pro and iPad mini nearby. If I want to watch a video, play a game, or read an ebook, I can always fire up one of those. And when I’m out and about, my iPhone is fine for the usual tasks—phone calls, email, texting, navigation, and checking apps. I don’t need a big screen for any of those. Recommended by Our Editors 6. Less Useful Outer Screen I’m sure Apple would outfit the outer screen on a foldable iPhone with most of the core iOS features. But I worry that the best stuff would be saved for the inner screen. Does that mean you’d have to unfold the phone to do more than just answer a call, send a text, or snap a photo? That’s difficult to answer at this point. And I’d imagine the outer screen would be more capable than that. But I still prefer a standard iPhone where I can do everything on one single screen. Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 7 outer screen (Credit: Eric Zeman/PCMag) 7. Thin Construction Finally, a foldable iPhone will obviously be thinner when unfolded. Think about all the components that have to squeeze into that slim frame. The camera and battery are two right off the bat. Will the camera be as beefy as the one on a standard iPhone? Will the battery, even one that’s supposed to be 5,000mAh, provide enough charge to get through the day? Of course, these are unknowns for now, but they do give me pause. Simply Irresistible? This is how I feel right now, with little more than rumors on what a foldable iPhone may look like and how it will work. Apple could unveil the phone later this year, and I might find it to be irresistible. But then I go back to my number one reason—the price tag. Such a phone would have to be so impressive that I’d be willing to plunk down a cool $2,000 or more for it. And I don’t see that happening. In the meantime, Apple released its low-cost iPhone 17e this week. Check out our full review . Get Our Best Stories! A Smart, Bold Take on the Wireless World Sign up for the Fully Mobilized newsletter to get our top mobile stories delivered right to your inbox. Sign up for the Fully Mobilized newsletter to get our top mobile stories delivered right to your inbox. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! About Our Expert Lance Whitney Contributor Experience I've been working for PCMag since early 2016 writing tutorials, how-to pieces, and other articles on consumer technology. Beyond PCMag, I've written news stories and tutorials for a variety of other websites and publications, including CNET, ZDNet, TechRepublic, Macworld, PC World, Time, US News & World Report, and AARP Magazine. I spent seven years writing breaking news for CNET as one of the site’s East Coast reporters. I've also written two books for Wiley & Sons— Windows 8: Five Minutes at a Time and Teach Yourself Visually LinkedIn . I've used Windows, Office, and other Microsoft products for years so I'm well versed in that world. I also know the Mac quite well. I'm always working with iOS, iPadOS, watchOS, and Android on my various mobile devices. And these days, I write a lot about AI, so that's become another key area for me. My wife always jokes about all the tech products we have around the house, but I manage to put them to good use for my articles. I like Lenovo computers, so I own a couple of Lenovo desktops and several laptops. I have three MacBooks and a Mac mini. For my mobile life and work, I use an iPhone 16 Pro, iPad Pro, and iPad mini as well as an Apple Watch. But since I write about Android, I own several Android phones and tablets. Like any tech person, I have a cabinet full of cables, wires, and assorted mysterious gadgets. And when it's time to take a break from writing, I have an old Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii, both of which I use for exercise and fitness games. Read Full Bio