In a surprise launch on Monday , Apple unveiled the AirPods Max 2, the long-awaited successor to its premium headphones that launched in 2020. The Max 2 cost $549, and feature active noise cancellation, Apple’s audio-specific H2 chip, support for live translation, better sound quality, and more. The headphones will be available for preorder starting March 25, in midnight, starlight, orange, purple, and blue colors, and will be available early next month. Apple says the new headphones’ active noise cancellation (ANC) is up to 1.5x more effective than their predecessor. And the Adaptive Audio feature lets the headphones automatically adjust the levels of ANC and Transparency based on the user’s surroundings to optimize the listening experience. The company says Transparency mode is now more natural, thanks to a new digital signal-processing algorithm optimized for the H2 chip and the AirPods Max microphone array, so users can stay aware of their surroundings and the people around them. Image Credits: Apple The headphones come with Live Translation, which helps users communicate across languages in person. They also feature voice isolation, which uses “advanced computational audio” to prioritize your voice during calls and block out ambient noise. Apple says the AirPods Max 2 has a new, high-dynamic-range amplifier for cleaner audio, and Spatial Audio is said to be better, with improved localization of instruments, better bass response, and natural mids and highs. The headphones also support Camera Remote, a feature that lets you trigger the iPhone or iPad’s camera shutter from a distance. On the Max 2, you press the Digital Crown to take a photo, or start and stop video recording in the Camera app, or compatible third-party camera apps on iPhone or iPad. Techcrunch event San Francisco, CA | October 13-15, 2026 Additionally, Apple says the headphones’ Loud Sound Reduction feature helps protect users from loud environmental noise while preserving the sound signature of what they’re listening to. Apple says the headphones’ mic allows interviewers, podcasters, singers, and other creators to capture content with higher-quality audio and more natural vocal texture. The AirPods Max 2 support 24-bit, 48 kHz lossless audio when used with the included USB-C cable. The Airpods Max 2 will be available in more than 30 countries and regions.