The Niti Aayog’s report has definition of ZEVs that include ethanol-based flex fuel vehicles (FFVs), hybrids and compressed bio-gas (CBG) vehicles alongside battery electric vehicles (BEVs) and hydrogen-based vehicles Niti Aayog has strongly supported bio-fuels in the run-up to net zero by 2070, rejecting three car makers’ -- Tata Motors, Mahindra & Mahindra and JSW MG Motor -- requests of straight away moving to electric vehicles as zero emission vehicles (ZEVs) without mixing other alternatives like hybrids. These companies have opposed a February 10, 2026, transport report by Niti Aayog and have written requesting reconsidering the expanded definition of ZEVs to preserve conceptual clarity “around true zero-tailpipe-emission technologies. The Niti Aayog’s report has definition of ZEVs that include ethanol-based flex fuel vehicles (FFVs), hybrids and compressed bio-gas (CBG) vehicles alongside battery electric vehicles (BEVs) and hydrogen-based vehicles. Sources told businessline that Niti Aayog has turned down their requests and suggested that adoption of ZEVs  including BEVs, FFVs, CBGs and hydrogen-based vehicles should be kept as key priority for the long-term vision and accordingly formalise segment-wise ZEV acceleration. The government’s think tank also said that the transition strategy should begin with the phased elimination of polluting diesel vehicles and the adoption of lower-emission technologies such as CNG, hybrids, and electric vehicles. “The subsequent phase should advance the use of biofuels through FFVs, CBG, and hybrid FFV models alongside continued growth in EV adoption. The final phase should ensure full deployment of ZEVs such as EVs, FFVs, hydrogen based vehicles, and CBG-based models,” it said. Meanwhile, the Indian Federation of Green Energy (IFGE) has also written to Niti Aayog thanking the think tank for not coming under industry pressure and continuing on supporting biofuels in the national interest. “We would like to place on record our strong appreciation that Niti Aayog has not buckled under pressure from certain industry lobbies and self-interest groups and has retained the core framework of a biofuel-led, technology-neutral and India-relevant decarbonisation pathway,” sources told b usinessline, quoting Sanjay Ganjoo, Director General, IFGE in the letter. IFGE is an umbrella organisation representing India’s green and bioenergy ecosystem in its entirety, spanning biofuels, CBG, ethanol, and the broader renewable energy sector. It has several companies and associations as its members such as NTPC, GAIL, Bajaj, Murugappa, Shree Renuka Sugars and Hero Future Energies. Addressing the letter to Suman Berry, Vice-Chairman, Niti Aayog, the IFGE also appreciated clarification made by Niti Aayog that ZEVs are defined based on lifecycle emissions across the value chain. “This further reinforces the principle that for any technology, tailpipe emissions alone cannot be the basis of assessment, and emissions must be evaluated across the entire lifecycle to arrive at a scientifically robust and policy-relevant conclusion,” the source quoting the letter added. Published on  March 25, 2026