Ponnam Prabhakar, Telangana Transport Minister, addressing the media at the secretariat in Hyderabad
																															| Photo Credit:
											SIDDHANT THAKUR Telangana Government rolled out India’s first State-negotiated discount of up to 20 per cent on Electric Vehicles (EVs) for Govt employees to encourage the adoption of electric vehicles (EVs). The discount on electric two-and four-wheeler was secured from leading EV manufacturers — Mahindra Electric, Ola Electric, Gravton Motors, and Ather Energy. The initiative could translate into savings of up to ₹4 lakh per employee for around five lakh government employees across the State, as per government estimates. “This is the first such initiative in India in which a State government has specifically negotiated discounts from Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) for its employees to purchase EVs, going beyond conventional tax waivers,” State Transport Minister Ponnam Prabhakar told the media on Tuesday. “When our government fleet goes electric, everyone in Telangana breathes cleaner air. This is governance that serves both people and the planet,” the Minister added. Earlier in 2024, the Telangana government implemented a 100 per cent exemption from road tax and registration fees for electric vehicles, including two-wheelers, four-wheelers, taxis, autorickshaws, goods carriers, tractors, and buses, as part of its public EV policy. “With the additional 20 per cent purchase discount, on top of the existing 100 per cent exemption from road tax and registration fees, Telangana is making EV ownership among the most affordable in the country,” Prabhakar said. There are more than 2,800 electric buses as part of its public transport fleet in the State. The govt was in discussion to rope in more EV manufacturers, such as Tata EV, to expand partnerships and ensure more choice for buyers. To encourage EV adoption, the charging infrastructure will be expanded across the state from the Telangana Secretariat to district and mandal-level government offices, as well as major public parking spaces, ensuring convenience and confidence for EV users. It is also encouraging hotels, malls, commercial complexes and public parks to set up EV charging facilities to make charging accessible in everyday parking spaces. “We don’t want Hyderabad to go the Delhi way (with respect to pollution levels). Nearly one lakh auto-rickshaws currently running on petrol, diesel or gas will be retrofitted with electric kits,” the minister said. From a consumption standpoint, Telangana is positioning itself as an EV hub, which would in turn, attract production companies as well, he added. Published on  March 24, 2026