(left) Ravneet S Phokela, Chief Business Officer, Ather Energy; Zohra Khan, CEO, IPEC India; Kausalya Nandakumar, Chief Business Officer - Emerging Mobility Business Unit, Hero MotoCorp; HD Kumaraswamy, Union Minister for Heavy Industries (MHI) & Public Enterprises; Vinnie Mehta, DG- ACMA; Rajesh Menon, DG- SIAM, and Saurabh Dalela, Director- ICAT, at the event on Monday The government on Monday said that India’s electric mobility transition must be inclusive and economically sustainable, with a focus on affordability and scalability across both urban as well as rural markets. Speaking at an event here, HD Kumaraswamy, Minister of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises of India, said that going forward, the focus must move beyond just adding more charging points. “What we need now is reliability, ease of access, and most importantly, interoperability. We must ensure that India’s EV transition remains inclusive and economically sustainable. Light electric vehicles (LEVs) will remain central to this as they serve as the primary mode of transport for millions of Indians,” Kumaraswamy said at the launch of the industry-led platform Light Electric-Vehicle Acceleration Forum (LEAF). Going forward, Kumaraswamy said India has a real opportunity to lead, not just domestically but globally. “If we can develop cost-effective and scalable solutions here, we can take them to our emerging markets across Asia, Africa and Latin America that share similar mobility needs,” the Minister noted, adding that ultimately the success of this transition will depend on strong partnerships between the government and the industry. Kumaraswamy assured that the government will continue to provide policy support, enable innovation and strengthen manufacturing ecosystems. “At the same time, industry collaboration like what we are seeing through LEAF will be critical in delivering real impact on the ground,” he added. ‘More than a platform’ LEAF has the potential to become more than just a platform. It can serve as a model on how collaboration can drive meaningful change across the entire ecosystem, he added. LEAF as an industry consortium for light electric vehicles (LEVs), bringing together original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), infrastructure providers, technology partners, and other stakeholders to enable collaboration, interoperability, and the adoption of standards across the LEV charging ecosystem, supporting India’s transition to electric mobility. Ather Energy in partnership Hero MotoCorp and with other emerging mobility business unit like IPEC have come together to form the consortium. The companies said that EV adoption in India has reached an inflection point, and the next phase of its growth will depend on how effectively the industry addresses charging anxiety, as users navigate fragmented networks and inconsistent experiences. “Delivering a seamless and interoperable charging experience at scale will require alignment on shared approaches, which LEAF aims to enable. We believe India has the potential to emerge as a global leader in light electric mobility, and initiatives like LEAF are key to unlocking this potential by building a more cohesive and scalable public charging ecosystem,” Kausalya Nandakumar, Chief Business Officer – Emerging Mobility Business Unit, Hero MotoCorp, said. Published on  March 30, 2026