LG/ZDNET The B5 is LG's entry-level OLED model, offering the same signature picture quality at a much more affordable price than its flagship cousins. And right now at Best Buy, you can save 50% on the 77-inch model , bringing the price to just $1,500 and making it that much more budget-friendly. Also: I compared the two best LG OLED TV models on the market right now - there's a surprise winner The OLED panel supports a 120Hz refresh rate for smooth motion while watching live sports, action-packed movies and shows, and even while console gaming. You'll also get support for Dolby Vision HDR, which enhances detail and lets you get the most out of the OLED panel's capabilities. And with support for both Nvidia G-Sync and AMD FreeSync VRR, console gamers won't have to deal with annoying screen tearing and stuttering. Also: Amazon Spring Sale live blog 2026: The top deals you can't miss If you've cut the cord with your cable or satellite provider, the LG B5 comes with a suite of preloaded streaming apps, including Netflix, Disney+, and HBOMax, so you can start watching your favorite shows and movies right out of the box. You'll also get support for both AirPlay and Google Cast for sharing photos, videos, and music from your iOS or Android devices. Bluetooth connectivity lets you set up wireless home audio systems for enhanced audio, but if you're limited on space, the LG B5 uses Dolby Atmos virtual surround sound for 3D audio without the extra equipment. How I rated this deal The LG B5 OLED is an excellent option for anyone looking to invest in a high-quality TV without paying a premium price. And with this 50% discount at Best Buy, you're getting an even better value on a big-screen OLED for your home theater. That's why I gave this deal a 5/5 Editor's rating. Deals are subject to sell out or expire anytime, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to save and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com . Show more We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision. At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET Show more