Nina Raemont/ZDNET Drilling into my wall stresses me out to no end. Not only because I am the complete opposite of a handyman, but also because I don't own my apartment, and any damage I create while living here is something I'll have to address when I move out. As a result, I've been on the hunt for bright, stylish wall lighting that will do little to no damage to my walls. Also: The best Amazon Spring Sale deals live now I found a helpful solution through the Poplight wall sconces . I've had them for over a year now, and, despite being propped up by Command strips, they have stuck to my wall as if they were drilled in. The lights are a little expensive -- at $100 per lamp. But during Amazon's Big Spring Sale, they're on sale for $84 , a 15% discount. I like the Poplight for a few reasons. The first is the sheer breadth of colors Poplight offers. There's black, cobalt blue, sage green, vermillion red, dusty rose, yellow, and white. It's hard to find other renter-friendly lights with as much variety. Plus, many of its alternatives cost far more. The next reason is how easy assembly was. The device adheres to the wall with Command strips, and the back of the sconce has a built-in leveler, so as you attach it to the wall you know that your light will be straight. Once the back is attached to the wall, the light "pops" into place, literally. It's uber satisfying. Also: This is the one smart home product everyone should have, and it's on sale There's a button on the bottom of the lights to turn them on and off, but I normally use the app instead. The Poplights are Bluetooth-enabled, but loading up the app can take a second. It's not the fastest software experience, I'll admit. It takes me two or three taps to turn my group of two Poplights on. But on the second try they normally wake up. You can change the light's warmth, how long it runs, and brightness. These lights aren't plugged into an outlet, hence their renter-friendly build. So you'll have to charge them with a USB-C every so often. For my purposes and use, it takes me around a month in between charges. Also: Smart home starter pack: Top 5 devices you need I love using the lights at night to create a cozy ambiance in my bedroom as I read or watch TV. I'm surprised they've stuck on my wall for this long with Command strips alone. While I wish the app experience was a little more advanced, the product's quality and design justifies the so-so app experience. How I rated this deal This deal is a 3/5 because the deal is under 20% off, but these Poplights rarely go on sale. They're a more expensive product, so buying them at any discount can save you a fair chunk of change. Because I love these lights, I'd recommend them for anyone revamping their home this springtime. Amazon's Big Spring Sale runs March 25-31, 2026. Show more Deals are subject to sell out or expire anytime, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to save and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com . Show more We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision. At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2026 Show more