Cesar Cadenas/ZDNET Amazon's Big Spring Sale is currently underway. It's a great time to pick up useful smartphone accessories that improve your overall quality of life. I took some time to scour the depths of Amazon for the best deals. It took a little while, but I managed to find the following standout deal, on a product I own and love. Also: Amazon Spring Sale live blog 2026: Tracking the biggest price drops all week Right now, the Lisen Retractable Car Charger is on sale for $16, a 35% discount off its original $25 price. Multiple models are seeing the price drop. The one that I recommend is the all-gray option. But if you want something with more pizzazz, Lisen also has an all-black and a black-pink car charger for $30. The most expensive charger is the white-pink option, which is $40. I actually own a Lisen car charger myself. I bought it last year during the previous Big Spring Sale, and I loved it so much that I ended up buying a second one for my dad to put in his car. What I enjoy most about it is how fast it charges my devices. It outputs 60W of power. I can plug in my phone for 15 minutes while I'm getting gas or dropping off a package, and it goes from 30% to almost 100% in that time. Also: I found the best tech deals under $50 during Amazon's Big Spring Sale event It comes with two cables. One supports the USB-C standard to recharge modern phones, while the other is a Lightning cable for older iPhones. If those are being used, you can plug your cable into either the 3A USB-C or the 2.4A USB-A input. True to its name, the cables are retractable. The length of cables depends on which model you get. I have the 31.5-inch charger, which is perfectly fine for my small sedan. It can reach all the way in the back. If you have a larger car, such as an SUV, you can purchase either the 39-inch or 47.24-inch options to reach further back. It plugs directly into a vehicle's cigarette lighter. That's how it receives power. The power brick rests on a 180-degree hinge, letting you adjust its position so it doesn't bump into the stick shift. I should mention that in the listing, you'll see specific smartphone models. You can ignore those. This charger is compatible with all phones that support either the Lightning or USB-C cable. I own an OnePlus 13R, which isn't on the list, and it works just fine with the charger. If your device doesn't support either standard, you can always use the accompanying ports. Once you're done with charging, simply yank the cord back, and it'll return to the Lisen Retractable Car Charger intact. How I rated this deal As per ZDNET's rating system, I grant this deal a 4/5. However, in my heart, I give this a 5/5. I love the Lisen Car Charger. It's vastly improved my personal life. I can plug in my phone for 30 minutes and have enough juice to last me through Los Angeles traffic during rush hour. And the fact that it's nearly impossible to tangle the cable makes me love it even more. If there's a birthday coming up or you want a nice present for yourself, I recommend getting this charger. Amazon's Big Spring Sale runs March 25-31, 2026. However, it's possible that some of the Spring Sale deals will continue after the event ends. Show more Deals are subject to sell out or expire at any time, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals so you can score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks the deals we share to ensure they are still live and available. It's possible that the deal for the LISEN Retracable Car Charger will continue past Amazon's Big Spring Sale, but we don't know for sure. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to save and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com . Show more We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision. At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2026 Show more