Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google. While memory and storage shortages have been driving up SSD and RAM prices to dizzying heights amid the AI hype, Amazon is offering a handful of truly impressive discounts on high-capacity gaming SSDs from Western Digital as part of its Big Spring Sale . With options up to 4TB, you can tailor your storage to your current needs or give yourself room to grow. Having so many storage capacity options also gives you a better chance of finding something that also fits a more modest budget, as even with such steep markdowns, the prices may still be a bit too rich for some. Also: The best Best Buy gaming deals live now Amazon doesn't have a dedicated tab for PCs and accessories on the Spring Sale page like it does for events like Prime Day, opting instead for a generic "electronics" section. Unfortunately, this means the best SSD deals are getting lost among items like streaming boxes, headphones , and charging cables . Fortunately for you, I've tracked down three of the very best WD Black SSDs Amazon is offering right now with some of the lowest prices I've seen since the shortages began. The best Amazon Spring Sale SSD deals from WD Black Current price: $670 (61% off) Original price: $1,700 This SN850X offers 4TB of storage, giving you all the space you need for large game downloads, raw and edited video files, photos, and more. You'll get read and write speeds up to 7,300 and 6,300 MB/s, respectively, and the integrated heatsink helps prevent damage from overheating. Also: The best M.2 SSDs you can buy Show more Current price: $626 (55% off) Original price: $1,380 An SSD tailor-made for serious gaming with read and write speeds up to 7,000 and 6,700 MB/s, 3D NAND flash memory, and an endurance rating up to 2,400TB. Also: The best cloud storage services Show more Current price: $430 (57% off) Original price: $1,000 The best choice for ultra-fast gaming with read speeds up to 14,900 MB/s for near-instant program launching, faster load times in programs and games, and easier file transfers when moving data from your main storage drive. Read more: SSD vs. HDD Show more Current price: $599 (53% off) Regular price: $1,269 While not quite as fast as the dedicated gaming SSDs from Western Digital, the Blue SN5000 is great for PCs and laptops that pull double duty as gaming rigs and workstations as well as creative professionals who need a high-capacity storage drive for raw and rendered files. Show more When is Amazon's Spring Sale? Amazon's annual Big Spring Sale event runs March 25-31, 2026. How do I find the best SSD deals during the Amazon Spring Sale? This year's Spring Sale lumps all electronics into a single tab on the deals page, which means that if you're looking for something specific, you'll have to sift through dozens of wireless chargers, Wi-Fi routers, and office keyboards. I've found the quickest way to find great deals on SSDs and other tech is to do direct searches by brand and then use filters to only show what's on sale. You can then pick out a few of the best to compare to other retailers like Best Buy and Walmart to make sure you're really getting the best price. When is the next Prime Day? Amazon has not made any official announcements as to when the next Prime Day sale will be held, but in recent years, the company has been fairly consistent with holding the sale in July. However, Amazon and other retailers will offer plenty of chances to save on SSDs and other big-ticket tech in the meantime.