The AI boom is entering a new phase, with competition intensifying over who will provide the AI inference infrastructure developers need to build and deploy agentic systems at scale. One company positioning itself at the center of that buildout is Vultr, a trademark of The Constant Company LLC, which announced adoption of Nvidia Corp.’s Rubin platform and the Nvidia Dynamo inference framework at this year’s GTC. The developer-focused cloud provider sees global AI inference infrastructure as the next major battleground, according to Kevin Cochrane (pictured), chief marketing officer of Vultr. “What Jensen [Huang] talked about today is [enterprises] need a vertically integrated, horizontally open stack,” Cochrane told theCUBE. “The vertical integration means they need recipes. They need examples of all of the different things that they can build and deploy on Vultr infrastructure on Nvidia GPUs. And they need an open ecosystem … So they can pick and choose all of the third-party services that they need to build in their stack.” Cochrane spoke with theCUBE’s Gemma Allen at the Nvidia GTC AI Conference & Expo , during an exclusive broadcast on theCUBE, SiliconANGLE Media’s livestreaming studio. They discussed global AI inference infrastructure, sovereign cloud strategy and the hybrid multicloud future for enterprise AI. (* Disclosure below.) Global AI inference infrastructure meets the sovereign cloud imperative With 33 cloud data center regions across six continents, Vultr provides GPU-forward, infrastructure-first solutions with the data residency, security and accessibility needed to support mission-critical AI workloads. As enterprises deploy agentic systems worldwide, that inference must run where the customers are — and sovereign cloud is no longer optional, Cochrane explained. “Every single national government needs to have a sovereign cloud strategy,” he said. “Every single national government needs to be deploying AI to improve their citizen experience to improve citizen services. If you’re a national government, you invest in water and sewage and power — you [also] need to invest in AI.” Looking ahead, Cochrane sees the $1 trillion AI infrastructure buildout as validation for the developer-first model that Vultr has championed for more than 14 years. AI will trigger fundamental restructuring from one end of the supply chain to the other, he noted. “A trillion dollars is underestimating it,” Cochrane said. “Everything that we know and do today in the digital world and in the physical world, it’s all going to get rebuilt. Everything. Every supply chain, every manufacturing line, every car, every mobile phone, everything is going to get rebuilt.” Here’s the complete video interview, part of SiliconANGLE’s and theCUBE’s coverage of the Nvidia GTC AI Conference & Expo : VIDEO (* Disclosure: Vultr sponsored this segment of theCUBE. Neither Vultr nor other sponsors have editorial control over content on theCUBE or SiliconANGLE.) Photo: SiliconANGLE A message from John Furrier, co-founder of SiliconANGLE: Support our mission to keep content open and free by engaging with theCUBE community. Join theCUBE’s Alumni Trust Network , where technology leaders connect, share intelligence and create opportunities. 15M+ viewers of theCUBE videos , powering conversations across AI, cloud, cybersecurity and more 11.4k+ theCUBE alumni — Connect with more than 11,400 tech and business leaders shaping the future through a unique trusted-based network. About SiliconANGLE Media SiliconANGLE Media is a recognized leader in digital media innovation, uniting breakthrough technology, strategic insights and real-time audience engagement. As the parent company of SiliconANGLE , theCUBE Network , theCUBE Research , CUBE365 , theCUBE AI and theCUBE SuperStudios — with flagship locations in Silicon Valley and the New York Stock Exchange — SiliconANGLE Media operates at the intersection of media, technology and AI. Founded by tech visionaries John Furrier and Dave Vellante, SiliconANGLE Media has built a dynamic ecosystem of industry-leading digital media brands that reach 15+ million elite tech professionals. Our new proprietary theCUBE AI Video Cloud is breaking ground in audience interaction, leveraging theCUBEai.com neural network to help technology companies make data-driven decisions and stay at the forefront of industry conversations.