Jason Hiner/ZDNET The Apple Watch Series 9 is a great addition to your iOS device collection, offering both 5G and Wi-Fi connectivity as well as integrated GPS capabilities to create the ultimate blend of smart watch and fitness band. And if you've been looking to upgrade your Apple Watch or pick up your first wearable, right now during the Amazon Spring Sale, you can grab the Apple Watch Series 9 for over 50% off. But you'll have to hurry because this deal ends tonight. Also: Apple Watch Series 10 vs. Apple Watch Series 9 This version is made with a 45mm watch face with a gold-colored stainless steel bezel and includes a Clay brand sport band so you can start using it right out of the box. The updated S9 processor gives you a brighter screen than previous Apple Watch models as well as faster responses to your touch inputs and gestures. The watchOS has also been redesigned for an easier learning curve and to give you more info at-a-glance. Review: Apple Watch Series 9 As a smart watch, the Series 9 allows you to make calls and send texts even if your iPhone isn't nearby. And with support for hundreds of apps, you can do just about anything a smartphone can do like stream music, create custom calendars, and set alarms to keep you on-task. As a fitness tracker, you can use the Apple Watch Series 9 to monitor a wide range of health information such as blood oxygen levels, sleep quality, and it will even perform ECG scans on command to catch irregular heartbeats before they can turn into serious problems. It also features fall and crash detection, making it a solid option for anyone who has to care for an older parent. How I rated this deal Markdowns on Apple products are a rare sight, and when they do happen, it usually isn't more than $100 off a MacBook or iPhone. But to be able to grab a brand new Apple Watch Series 9 for over half off is an incredible value, even though the device is a generation behind. That's why I gave this deal a 5/5 Editor's rating. Amazon's Big Spring Sale runs March 25-31, 2026. Show more This Amazon Spring Sale flash deal ends at 11:59pm on March 25 Deals are subject to sell out or expire anytime, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to save and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com . Show more We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision. At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2026 Show more