Kerry Wan/ZDNET Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google. ZDNET's key takeaways A Microsoft VP doesn't like forcing a Microsoft account in Windows. This means the company may finally let you use a local account instead. This is part of an effort to make Windows more reliable and friendly. Microsoft has long prevented you from creating a local account to initially sign in to your Windows 11 PC. Instead, you're forced to choose a Microsoft account during the setup process even if you don't plan to use any of its associated features. Yes, you can always switch from your Microsoft account to a local account afterwards. But you still have to establish that Microsoft account in the first place. Needless to say, that requirement has frustrated a lot of people. Now, a Microsoft VP has hinted that he's working on a way around this annoyance. Improving the quality of Windows In a Friday post on X , Microsoft Developer Community VP Scott Hanselman said that improving the quality of Windows is part of his new job. Hanselman pointed to a Microsoft blog post in which the company touted all the new features and fixes headed to the OS. Also: My 5-step security checklist for every new Windows PC In response, one person pointed out that there was nothing in the blog post about removing the requirement to log in to an MS online account just to use the computer. And to that, Hanselman's reply was short and sweet, but hopeful: "Ya I hate that. Working on it." Though there's nothing definitive in this reply, at least we know that Hanselman dislikes this requirement as much as the rest of us. Try to set up Windows 11 on a new computer, and you're forced to choose a Microsoft account. Local accounts still exist , but Microsoft won't let you use them, at least not during the initial setup. For people who would rather use a local account, you can always switch to one from a Microsoft account , but only after the initial setup process. In the past, several workarounds let you trick Windows into creating a local account. But Microsoft made it its mission to squash each of those as if its users were misbehaving children who needed to be disciplined. Such free third-party utilities as Rufus and Ventoy sneak past the account requirements so you can choose a local account during the installation. But you shouldn't have to turn to a third-party tool just to set up Windows the way you want. In denial mode while pushing AI Microsoft has gotten a lot of flack from Windows 11 users over everything from stability issues to a lack of customization (Windows taskbar, I'm thinking of you). But the company has largely been in denial mode, at least publicly. Instead of addressing such concerns, Microsoft has been pushing AI as some type of white knight galloping in to save Windows, seemingly ignoring all the core problems. Now, the company finally seems to be getting the message. Also: Microsoft announces sweeping Windows changes - but no apologies In the Friday blog post , Windows boss Pavan Davuluri offered a host of areas in Windows 11 that are due for a revamp. You'll be able to better customize the taskbar, including moving it to the top or bottom of the screen. You'll have more control over Windows updates. Microsoft is also promising better performance from File Explorer and improved reliability in general. Oh, and not so much forced AI slop. Perhaps Microsoft is now realizing that its users aren't the enemy and that it actually needs to listen to them when they complain about the major pain points in Windows. Removing the need to use a Microsoft account in Windows will certainly go a long way if the company wants to get back into the good graces of its customers.