ZDNET's key takeaways Pros: Gorgeous display, big haptic trackpad doubles as a drawing surface, battery lasts long Cons: Poor webcam quality, larger trackpad has usability issues Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google. Last year, Acer's Swift 16 AI was one of the best laptops I tested. It was a sleeper hit: a solid bang-for-buck option with a fantastic battery and a gorgeous display that looked a lot more expensive than it is (on sale right now for around $900 ). The 2026 refresh of the Acer Swift 16 AI holds the same position in the lineup as a premium 16-inch, but to give it a unique identity, Acer added a few different design elements that push it further into "made-for-creatives" territory -- most notably, the football field-sized trackpad that also serves as a drawing surface with the included stylus. Also: Dell XPS 14 (2026) review: A Windows laptop I wouldn't mind returning to from Mac But in trying to make this laptop stand out in the crowded mid-range price point, is Acer trying to fix something that wasn't broken to begin with? Best laptop deals of the week Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article. Go big or go home The 2026 Acer Swift 16 AI is one of the first new Panther Lake laptops of the year, armed with the Intel Core Ultra X7 or X9 processor -- the "X" designating the integrated Intel Arc GPU. My review unit had the Intel Core Ultra X7 Series 358H, 32GB of LPDDR5X RAM, and a 1TB PCIe Gen 5 SSD. Let's address the elephant in the room: the monumental trackpad. Measuring seven inches by 4.5 inches (8.15 inches diagonally), it takes up so much room on the clamshell that it almost doesn't look like a trackpad. That's true, in part, as it's also a drawing surface with the included stylus. Kyle Kucharski/ZDNET Acer says it's the world's largest haptic trackpad, and I'm inclined to believe it. Made of Corning Gorilla Glass, it's smooth and responsive, with exceptional feedback and support for MPP 2.5 tilt-enabled styli. It's an impressive feat of engineering to have a haptic touchpad this big feel so well-designed. That said, I'm not entirely sure why Acer decided to give this laptop -- formerly a versatile upper- and mid-range device -- such a niche, highly specialized feature. Sure, now it imbues the device with a unique identity, but I didn't think the Swift 16 AI necessarily needed it. But after using the included stylus in a few different applications, I can say it would certainly be appreciated by artists or designers as an easy-access surface for sketching or drawing. With the right software, it could even replace a dedicated tablet. Also: I tried dozens of mice, and the Logitech MX is my clear favorite - here's why There are trade-offs to a trackpad/drawing surface this big, though. When typing, it's where your hands rest, and although it has palm-rejection software, false inputs still occur. To adapt, I found myself typing with my right hand hovering over the keyboard rather than resting on it. The other thing is that because the trackpad extends to the very edge of the device, I often found myself activating it with my thumbs or my wrists. A subtle but functional lip between the trackpad and the edge of the device could alleviate this problem, but would require some redesigns. Kyle Kucharski/ZDNET Moving past the trackpad, the other headliner is the 16-inch OLED display. Just like last year's model, it's crisp, bright, and vibrant, with an edge-to-edge glass construction at WQXGA+ (2880x1800) resolution and a standard 120Hz refresh rate. Just keep in mind it's quite glossy. When it's clean and the lighting conditions are good, it's stunning. But harsh overhead lighting can cause reflections. Powered by the Arc Graphics B390, there's enough here to make for a solid gaming laptop, but like the XPS 14 -- which I recently tested with the same processor -- the integrated GPU doesn't quite replace a discrete graphics card. You will need to bring settings down in demanding games, as is the case with high-end video editing. Trade-offs Acer's Swift lineup aims to deliver a satisfying user experience for an approachable price. One way it's able to do this is by beefing up certain features (the gorgeous display, the big trackpad) at the expense of others. The physical build is another indication of its price point. It's very thin and light, but there's a little flex in the keyboard, plastic grills on the underside, and some palpable heat generation when the hardware is at work. Also: 6 WFH gadgets that leveled up my home office (and all of them are on sale) That said, it doesn't really feel cheap, and the hinge is sturdy, with no unnecessary wobble. More importantly, it's light, at just 3.2 pounds. I took this laptop to work for a few weeks, and it's a fantastic commuter's device, sliding virtually unnoticed into my backpack. Another trade-off worth mentioning is the webcam, which is not as good as competitors'. I took a few calls on the 1080p FHD camera, and it was dark and grainy, with an overall cold color tone. Kyle Kucharski/ZDNET One more thing: the onslaught of ads degrades the user experience. This is nothing new to Windows machines -- which aim to get your credit card before you've seen your desktop for the first time -- but it feels worse here. Between the antivirus software ads, Windows services, and mobile game pop-ups, Windows feels like a bloated marketplace that no one asked for. Also: This hidden Windows 11 feature can help you spot battery issues early - how to find it Acer also includes a rather extensive selection of proprietary software, like camera image touch-ups (Acer PurifiedView), presence sensing, and AI-powered content summarization apps that are designed to generate product value but end up convoluting the experience. Battery life and benchmarking Put simply, the battery life on this machine is very good, especially given the big OLED display. I got a little over nine hours using the laptop in the office with typical work tasks at half brightness and on Wi-Fi. With a little battery management, expect it to easily last the entire workday. As far as performance benchmarking goes, the Swift 16 AI performs right around other Panther Lake laptops released so far in 2026, coming in just a hair under the Dell XPS 14 with the same processor. It's a respectable performance, considering those laptops cost hundreds more. Their physical builds and feature sets are a little more premium, but when it comes down to performance, the Swift 16 AI keeps up. In that sense, it punches above its weight, just like its predecessor. ZDNET's buying advice The 2026 Acer Swift 16 AI has traded in some of its versatility for a more creator-focused build identity with a large trackpad/drawing surface. If you're an artist or designer seeking a functional laptop that can replace or supplement a dedicated tablet, it's a great option. Even if you don't use it as a drawing surface, just as a big trackpad, it's very well engineered. The display is gorgeous, and paired with the performance, you get a solid laptop for the price. However, outside of these areas, the trade-offs are more evident. Namely, the underwhelming webcam, mid-speakers, and bloatware. Also: How to clear your Windows 11 PC cache (and why you shouldn't wait to do it) If the large trackpad doesn't sound like something you're into, I'd recommend Samsung's Galaxy Book 6 Pro instead, or potentially Lenovo's Yoga Pro 9i , which is $100 more but more premium. Its mid-range price point ($1,599 for the 16GB version, $1,899 for the 32GB) might seem on the high side, but keep in mind that this laptop is competing directly with other more premium options with the same processor, like the Dell XPS 14 and the Asus ExpertBook B9, both of which go for several hundred dollars more.