Kerry Wan/ZDNET The Amazon Big Spring Sale starts on March 25. It's a major sales event where Amazon slashes prices on a wide variety of products, including laptops, headphones, and especially smartphones. I searched high and low on the platform, looking for a great early deal, and I found one of the best. Also: The best Amazon Spring Sale deals live now Right now, the 2025 Motorola Razr Ultra is on sale for $800, a 38% discount off its original price. Every single color has received a price drop. There are four options available: Pantone Cabaret (pink), Pantone Mountain Trail (brown), Pantone Rio Red, and Pantone Scarab (green). You can trade in your phone to lower the price even further, and if you do, Amazon will add an extra $100 to that trade-in. In my experience, whenever people talk about a foldable phone, it's usually a Samsung model, like the Z Flip 7. And you can't really blame them because they are great devices. It's for that reason that I think the Razr Ultra should get way more attention than it currently receives, since this is a solid alternative to Samsung's hardware. Also: Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 7 vs. Motorola Razr Ultra: I tested both foldables and here's the winner The Razr Ultra maintains the compact design the series is known for while introducing key upgrades. It now runs on a Snapdragon 8 Elite chipset and 16GB of RAM, enabling better all-around performance. The outer display has been made bigger. So instead of a small bar across the phone's lid, it takes up the entire space, letting you use apps without opening the model. Review: Motorola Razr Ultra Motorola made structural changes to the Razr Ultra , now sporting a stronger hinge and a smoother inner-screen crease. The device feels notably sturdier than before. The phone also stands out visually with bold Pantone colors and unique finishes. That's something you won't get on a Samsung device. How I rated this deal Per ZDNET's rating system, I give this deal a 4/5 Editor's Deal rating. These 38% savings are an awesome discount, especially given the circumstances. I've personally tried this foldable for a while and loved it. It's visually striking. The large outer screen makes ignoring this phone not possible. It's a great foldable for anyone looking for a more affordable alternative to the Galaxy Z Flip 7. It performs well, videos look great on the display, and battery life is pretty solid, too. If I didn't already own a phone, I'd definitely buy this for myself. I do want to mention that if you take advantage of Amazon's trade-in deal, this promotion gets bumped up to a perfect 5/5 -- it's that good. Amazon's Big Spring Sale runs March 25-31, 2026. Show more Deals are subject to sell out or expire anytime, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. It's possible that this deal will continue past Amazon's Big Spring Sale, but we don't know for sure. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to save and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com . Show more We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision. At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2026 Show more