Nina Raemont/ZDNET I'm on my phone too much these days, and I've tried to understand why I am so drawn to using it right as I wake up -- or within the first few hours of my day -- despite the fact I don't like when I use it. Not only is it majorly addictive, but it's also an entertaining device that is normally within a one-foot radius of wherever I happen to be. It's stupidly convenient to pull out when I'm distracted, anxious, or bored and start scrolling away. Could the defense against one entertaining, addictive device be... another less addictive, less entertaining device? Yes, I'm talking about my Kindle . Also: The best Amazon Spring Sale deals live now I've begun renting more ebooks from my public library, downloading them on my Kindle, and keeping the e-reader close by, so I reach for it just as often as I would my phone. You might say, "Nina, you could do this with a book as well," but a book rarely fits in my small jeans or coat pocket -- and my base model Kindle does. Also: Want free ebooks? These 10 sites offer thousands of great reads To keep doomscrolling at bay, I really recommend the unstoppable duo of Kindle and a rented ebook. Of course, you could also buy them if you like to get ebooks on demand, but you can save loads of money renting from your local library or downloading free ebooks on dedicated websites. That keeps the $100 cost (discounted during Amazon's Big Spring Sale) of a Kindle low -- or comparatively lower than a $100 Kindle and several $5 or $10 ebooks. I've started pulling out my Kindle on my morning and afternoon commutes to and from the office instead of my phone. I've found that reading before and after work not only improves my mood (since I'm not seeing distracting, rage-baity content bright and early), but it also keeps my focus sharper throughout the day and calms me down after a busy workday. It's much easier to pull out a Kindle from my pocket than it is to dig through my work bag for a book. Also: I bricked my iPhone to prevent doomscrolling - and accidentally fixed my life If you're willing to commit to reading more and doomscrolling less, I'd certainly recommend downloading some of your favorite ebooks onto your Kindle to get cracking on those screen time goals. During Amazon's Big Spring Sale, the base model Kindle device is discounted to $100, so you can save some money buying it now. How I rated this deal I rated this deal a 3/5 because the device rarely goes on sale, so this is a convenient time to buy one. However, it's only discounted by 9%, which isn't that high of a discount. Perhaps throughout Amazon's Spring Sale, the Kindles will get steeper discounts. If that happens I'll boost the deal rating by one point. Amazon's Big Spring Sale runs March 25-31, 2026. Show more Deals are subject to sell out or expire anytime, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. This Kindle deal will likely last through the entirety of Amazon's Big Spring Sale, since Kindle is an Amazon-owned product and Amazon is discounting its merchandise through March 31. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to save and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com . Show more We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision. At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2026 Show more