JSW MG Motor Windsor EV New Delhi: JSW MG Motor India is witnessing strong traction for its electric vehicle portfolio in non-metro markets , with around 70 per cent of sales of its Windsor model coming from outside the top four cities, a senior company executive told PTI . The MG Windsor has recorded cumulative sales of around 65,000 units since its launch in October 2024. While metro cities such as Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai account for 30 per cent of sales, the remaining share is driven by smaller towns and cities. JSW MG Motor India Chief Commercial Officer, Vinay Raina said that electric vehicle adoption in India was initially concentrated in metro cities due to limited awareness and lack of mass-market products. “The introduction of the MG Windsor changed this dynamic and became a key enabler of rapid EV adoption in non-metro cities,” he said, adding that the product’s value proposition has resonated with customers seeking both sustainability and cost savings. Raina noted that non-metro regions now present a significant opportunity for EV growth in the country. To further accelerate Windsor sales, the company plans to deepen its presence in these markets through increased awareness initiatives and customer engagement. “Supported by our robust network, we look forward to further deepening our reach through continuous EV awareness efforts,” Raina said. The automaker currently operates a network of 541 sales and service touchpoints across India, with only 51 located in metro cities. JSW MG Motor India has sold close to 1 lakh electric vehicles in India between October 2024 and February 2026, including models such as the Comet and ZS EV. The company reported a 19 per cent year-on-year growth in total sales, including internal combustion engine vehicles, at 70,554 units in 2025. Looking ahead, the automaker plans to introduce four new models this year, including a plug-in hybrid SUV, as part of its broader strategy to drive the next phase of growth in India. Published On Mar 22, 2026 at 10:52 AM IST Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals. Subscribe to Newsletter to get latest insights & analysis in your inbox. All about ETAuto industry right on your smartphone!