After crossing Australia’s coastline for a second time overnight, Tropical Cyclone Narelle is forecast to threaten a third state, with authorities warning the system could regain cyclone strength as it tracks west from the Northern Territory toward Western Australia in the coming days. Striking the Northern Territory as a category 3 system, Tropical Cyclone Narelle delivered powerful conditions, with wind gusts reaching up to 185 km/h. The system is expected to weaken into a tropical low as it approaches Katherine, but the Bureau of Meteorology has warned there is a “moderate” chance it could redevelop into a cyclone on Monday(March 23) after crossing the Top End. According to 9News website, before tracking into Western Australia, Tropical Cyclone Narelle is forecast to impact coastal communities between Birany Birany and Numbulwar. Severe weather warnings are in place for intense rainfall and life-threatening flash flooding between Birany Birany and Numbulwar, including Groote Eylandt, extending inland toward Bulman on Sunday. Damaging wind gusts of up to 90 km/h are forecast between King George River Mouth and the border region as the system moves west, while heavy rainfall could trigger flash flooding across the north Kimberley, with flood warnings in place across both states. According to 9News website, in Queensland, multiple flood warnings remain after Tropical Cyclone Narelle swept across Cape York Peninsula, narrowly missing communities, with Premier David Crisafulli saying the state escaped largely unscathed despite up to 400 mm of rain. "It walked a tightrope perfectly between Coen and Lockhart River, and then ducked just south of Aurukun as it exited on the western side of the Cape," Crisafulli said. "The fact that it went right between two of the larger populated centres was a real blessing." With floodwaters cutting off road access, authorities say delivering food and fuel to isolated communities may take time, leaving Cooktown airport as the only route for people and supplies.