Investment Ideas Better option in times of volatility and uncertainty: 6 healthcare stocks with upside potential of up to 30% Synopsis As geopolitical tensions escalate in the Gulf region, the global investment landscape is once again grappling with rising crude oil prices and supply chain disruptions. For India, which imports over 80% of its oil requirements, the conflict typically translates into inflationary pressure, a widening current account deficit, and heightened market volatility. But even in this environment, there are a few sectors that not only provide a defensive shelter, but also have robust growth engines insulated from external shocks. What is the primary reason that a sector is categorised as “safe” and “insulated” from global turmoil? It is the inelastic nature of demand for the product or services of that sector. Some two decades back, the FMCG sector was the go-to sector in this light. But things have changed. Today, one sector that is considered safe and insulated from geopolitical turmoil is healthcare. Demand here is inelastic in nature, unaffected by war or economic ETMarkets.com Mar 22, 2026, 03:38:00 PM IST Gift ETPrime to your friends Gift a Subscription Now, gift ETPrime subscription to your friend for Free! Gift this Story to your friends Gift a Story Share member-only stories with your friends or family and help them read it for free. FONT SIZE Abc Small Abc Medium Abc Large SAVE PRINT COMMENT Continue reading with one of these options: Limited Access Free Login to get access to some exclusive stories & personalised newsletters Login Now Unlimited Access Starting @ Rs120/month Get access to exclusive stories, expert opinions & in-depth stock reports Subscribe Now Unlock Access to All Exclusives with ETPrime FREE TRIAL 15 Days Free: Unlock All ETPrime Exclusives, Market Tools & ePapers Trial offer expiring in 00 : 05 : 00 Start Your Free Trial No Payment Required Uh-oh! This is an exclusive story available for selected readers only. Worry not. You’re just a step away. Sign In to Read for Free Prime Account Detected! It seems like you're already an ETPrime member with Login using your ET Prime credentials to enjoy all member benefits Log out of your current logged-in account and log in again using your ET Prime credentials  to enjoy all member benefits. Sign in & Access ET Prime Unlock ETPrime's Exclusive Stories Today! Subscribe to gain powerful insights on business, stock market and industry trends. Big Price Drop! Flat 40% Off Avail Offer Student Only Offer Already a  Member? Sign In now Already a  Member? Sign In now Subscribe Now Already a  Member? Sign In now Offer Exclusively For You Save up to Rs. 700/- ON ET PRIME MEMBERSHIP Avail Offer Offer Exclusively For You Get 1 Year Free With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership Avail Offer Offer Exclusively For You Get 1 Year Free With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership Avail Offer Offer Exclusively For You Get Flat 40% Off Then  ₹ 1749 for 1 year Avail Offer Offer Exclusively For You ET Prime at ₹ 49 for 1 month Then  ₹ 1749 for 1 year Avail Offer Continue with Email Continue with Mobile No. What’s Included with ETPrime Membership 1 Invest Wisely With Smart Market Tools & Investment Ideas Investment Ideas Grow your wealth with stock ideas & sectoral trends. Stock Reports Plus All-in-one stock research with Stock Score, peer comparison & key signals. BigBull Portfolio Get to know where the market bulls are investing to identify the right stocks. Stock Analyzer Check the score based on the company's fundamentals, solvency, growth, risk & ownership to decide the right stocks. Market Mood Analyze the market sentiments & identify the trend reversal for strategic decisions. Stock Talk Live at 9 AM Daily Ask your stock queries & get assured replies by ET appointed, SEBI registered experts. 2 Stay informed anytime, anywhere with ET ePaper ePaper - Print View Read the PDF version of ET newspaper. Download & access it offline anytime. ePaper - Digital View Read your daily newspaper in Digital View & get it delivered to your inbox everyday. Wealth Edition Manage your money efficiently with this weekly money management guide. 3 Exclusive Insights That Matter 4 Times Of India Subscription (1 Year) TOI ePaper Read the PDF version of TOI newspaper. Download & access it offline anytime. Deep Explainers Explore the In-depth explanation of complex topics for everyday life decisions. Health+ Stories Get fitter with daily health insights committed to your well-being. Personal Finance+ Stories Manage your wealth better with in-depth insights & updates on finance. New York Times Exclusives Stay globally informed  with exclusive story from New York Times. 5 Enjoy Complimentary Subscriptions From Top Brands Docubay Subscription Stream new documentaries from all across the world every day.