Markets ended last week on a largely flat note with a negative bias, reflecting underlying caution among participants. The upcoming week is expected to remain data-sensitive amid ongoing global uncertainties. Developments in the West Asia conflict and movements in crude oil prices will continue to act as key external drivers and are likely to dictate the near-term market trend. STATE OF THE MARKETS GIFT Nifty (Earlier SGX Nifty) signals a gap-down start GIFT Nifty on the NSE IX traded lower by 343.50 points, or 1.48 per cent, at 22,790, signaling that Dalal Street was headed for a gap-down start on Monday. Tech View: Immediate support is placed at 22,900, and a breach below this level could trigger further downside towards 22,600. On the upside, resistance is seen near the gap zone around 23,500. The RSI is hovering near the oversold zone at 32, suggesting the possibility of a near-term pullback. India VIX: India VIX, which is a measure of the fear in the markets, rose 0.4% to settle at 22.81 levels. US Stocks end lower Wall Street ended sharply lower on Friday, with losses in heavyweights Nvidia and Microsoft, as the U.S.-Israeli war against Iran entered its fourth week, deepening worries about inflation and the potential for higher interest rates. Asian shares fall Asian Stocks fell and oil whipsawed in a volatile start to trading, as the war in Iran entered a fourth week with no sign of de-escalation. Treasuries extended their selloff. S&P 500 futures fell 0.3% as of 9:35 a.m. Tokyo time Nikkei 225 futures (OSE) fell 3.8% Japan’s Topix fell 3.7% Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 fell 1.5% Euro Stoxx 50 futures fell 1.1% Oil little changed Oil prices were little moved on Monday as investors weighed U.S. and Iranian threats to target energy facilities that could escalate the war against the release of millions of barrels of Iranian oil ‌at sea to ⁠global markets after ⁠Washington lifted sanctions. Dollar poised for rally The dollar was poised for a rebound on Monday as retaliatory threats escalated in the Middle East crisis, damping risk sentiment and boosting demand for haven assets. Stocks in F&O ban today Samman Capital SAIL Securities in the ban period under the F&O segment include companies in which the security has crossed 95% of the market-wide position limit. FII/DII action Foreign portfolio investors net sold shares worth Rs 5,518 crore on Friday. DIIs, meanwhile, were net buyers at Rs 5,706 crore. Rupee The Indian rupee plunged as much as 110 paise Friday, recording its steepest single-day rout since late 2022, after oil surged amid an unrelenting barrage of attacks by either side on respective energy installations in West Asia (Disclaimer: Recommendations, suggestions, views and opinions given by the experts are their own. These do not represent the views of Economic Times)