Kolkata: The cumulative seizures, including cash, liquor, narcotics, precious metals, by various Enforcement agencies in West Bengal stands at Rs 181.31 crore till March 22, ahead of the assembly polls with total cash seizures till date is Rs 282.33 lakhs. Meanwhile, ECI has directed General and Police Observers, District Election Officers, Returning Officers and Police officials from DGP to the SHOs of Police Stations to maintain strict vigil and to take stern action against all miscreants irrespective of their party affiliations. “Intensive monitoring has led to significant seizures. Since the announcement of the election, cumulative seizures of cash, liquor, narcotics, precious metals, and other freebies have been executed to curb illegal inducements / misuse of money power in elections,” ECI said today. Also Read | West Bengal polls: Top cops hit the ground to secure a peaceful vote “In keeping with its policy of ZERO tolerance, ECI will ensure that any attempt to threaten and intimidate voters which may lead to obstruction of free and fair polls would be dealt with in the strictest possible manner, ECI directed. The Commission remains committed to strict compliance to the implementation of MCC in letter and spirit for ensuring a free & fair elections, EC said. With the objective of ensuring free and fair elections , the Commission is maintaining strict vigilance regarding the Model Code of Conduct. During naka checking, 5.8 kg of narcotics and 2.7 kg of intoxicants were seized in Cooch Behar. “As intimated by the CRPF on duty, substantive quantity of 5.8 kg narcotics in a bag and 2.7 kg other contraband drugs in the form of tablets have been seized at Patlakhawa area of Cooch Behar district from two buses during NAKA checking. Details and valuation of the seized drugs will be shared subsequently,” ECI said. Also Read | Mamata calls PM Modi ‘biggest infiltrator,’ vows to protect Bengal’s rights ahead of polls Presently, 1,879 Flying Squad teams have been deployed for naka checking operations. 2,235 Static Surveillance Teams have been deployed at various checkpoints. Two miscreants, found in possession of firearms, have been arrested in Kandi and Murshidabad. The police at Kandi Police Station have registered a case against them. A total of 358,986 political advertisements have been removed from both government and private premises. Out of which, the Public Property Defacement removed is 311829 while Private Property Defacement removed 19901.