A s shoppers pushed their trolleys out through the supermarket doors, Napoleon Alexander — sat at a folding table strategically placed to catch people coming and going — turned on his 1,000-watt smile. “Do you have a quick second to sign a new petition we’ve got?” he asked one and all. Most people demurred, scuttling off to their cars. Some stopped to hear his pitch. Relatively few bought it. “It’s about 50:50, brother. It’s weird,” Alexander explained. “I would think more people would be into it, but more seem to be against it. A lot of it, I guess, depends on the way you view the world.” Alexander has been pulled in as a foot soldier in a domestic political fight with potentially global implications. The California Billionaire Tax Act, proposed by a clutch of labour groups led by the Service Employees International Union (SEIU), would levy a one-time 5 per cent tax on the wealth of the state’s 200 or so billionaires. Between them they hold an estimated $2 trillion (£1.5 trillion). To get the act on to a November ballot during America’s mid-term elections, the unions must gather 875,000 signatures of registered California voters by June 24. If they fail to reach that threshold, the proposition dies. The SEIU, the state’s largest public sector union with nearly 100,000 members, has positioned the tax as a sensible way for the richest to “step up” and prevent a “healthcare collapse” after Donald Trump pulled $100 billion in federal funding. Larry Page and Sergey Brin, the Google co-founders who between them are worth half a trillion dollars, redomiciled dozens of their companies — not Alphabet, Google’s parent — away from California, where they built their tech empires, in the last days of 2025; they bought compounds in Florida and Nevada, respectively. David Sacks, the billionaire tech investor and AI tsar for the Trump administration, left California and moved to Austin, Texas, in December. David Sacks in the Oval Office with President Trump last year BEN CURTIS/AP With the mid-term elections looming, the fight has become a litmus test for politicians and driven a wedge between those in the highest financial echelon. Some have vowed to pay their share as a patriotic duty; others have already fled what they see as an “asset seizure.” If the law passes, it would apply to anyone resident in California as of January 1, 2026. Chamath Palihapitiya, a billionaire techie and co-host of the All-In podcast with Sacks, said in January: “When you look at our friends that all left, it’s about half a trillion of net worth, which I think is very bad for the long-term budget of California. I can pick about 25 people just off the top of my head.” Palihapitiya has vowed, for now, to “stay and fight”. Tom Steyer, a billionaire businessman and Democrat running to succeed outgoing California governor Gavin Newsom, has publicly supported the bill. Chamath Palihapitiya will “stay and fight” JESSE GRANT/GETTY IMAges The kerfuffle points to a brewing societal conflict over the widening gap between rich and poor that could be supercharged by artificial intelligence. Dario Amodei , chief executive of Anthropic, the $380 billion AI company, has predicted that up to 50 per cent of entry-level white-collar jobs could be lost within five years. Much of that value would, presumably, funnel to the owners of those powerful AI models and away from the middle and lower classes. Erik Brynjolfsson, of the Digital Economy Lab at Stanford University in California, has been tracking the impact of AI on the labour market. As of November last year, recent graduates (aged 22-25) in “AI-exposed” fields had endured a 16 per cent drop in employment since November 2022, when ChatGPT burst onto the scene. He said: “I anticipate that this wave is going to be bigger than the internet and, probably, bigger than the Industrial Revolution. “I also think it’s going to hit faster than either of those, and we don’t have a great track record of managing these kinds of disruptions where some jobs get destroyed, new jobs get created, and in between a lot of people get hurt.” A recent poll from NBC News found that just 26 per cent of respondents had a positive view of AI — lower than the 38 per cent who had a positive view of ICE, the highly controversial federal immigration force. The billionaire class, especially in California, which is home to many of the top AI labs, has become the avatar of that discontent. But they are not going down without a fight. A clutch of ultra-wealthy businessmen — including Sir Michael Moritz, Google co-founder Brin and Patrick Collison, the Irish founder of payments giant Stripe — have injected millions of dollars into Building a Better California, a campaign group that has proposed a trio of bills to water down the SEIU proposal. The group is paying up to $15 per signature secured — about three times the typical rate offered for such propositions in the state — to get their opposing bills on the ballot. Chris Larsen, the tycoon behind $50 billion crypto company Ripple, has funded another group, called Golden State Promise, to fight a proposal he dubbed “toxic”, “misguided” and “written by people who don’t understand business”. Ripple’s Chris Larsen DAVID PAUL MORRIS/GETTY IMAGES If passed, it would, for example, calculate the 5 per cent tax levy based on a person’s voting interest in a company, as opposed to their overall holding. This could be onerous for tech founders who often have “super voting” shares that give them far greater control than their actual ownership stakes. Larsen owns 17 per cent of Ripple but has 58 per cent of the voting shares. “This tax would tax me on 41 per cent of $50 billion that I don’t even own, right? That’s impossible,” he said. “And I think that’s why you’ve seen so many people leave, because it’s so draconian.” The financial impact of this would be substantial. A 5 per cent wealth levy on his economic interest — worth more than $8 billion — would result in a $400 million tax bill. By levying the tax on the 58 per cent voting interest, this could jump to $1.4 billion. The billionaire question has become a crucial political signpost in California. Gavin Newsom , the Democratic governor who is expected to run for president in 2028, has come out forcefully against the proposed tax. “We’re in a competitive environment. People have this simple luxury, particularly people of that status, they already have two or three homes outside the state. It’s a simple issue,” he said in January. “You’ve got to be pragmatic about it.” Bernie Sanders ANNA MONEYMAKER/GETTY IMAGES Amid stories of a mini-exodus from California, Bernie Sanders, the firebrand senator from Vermont, this month proposed a national bill that would impose an annual 5 per cent wealth tax on America’s 938 billionaires. He said: “We can no longer tolerate a corrupt tax code that enables billionaires to pay a lower tax rate than the average worker.” In recent days, it has emerged that New York City mayor Zohran Mamdani wants to cut the estate tax threshold by 90 per cent to $750,000, and raise the top estate tax rate from 16 per cent to 50 per cent. Larsen, for one, thinks that the valiant efforts of people such as Napoleon Alexander in California will fail. But he views it as the beginning of a backlash, rather than one-off attempt to soak the rich. Indeed, in the background, he is attempting to bridge the divide between billionaires and unions to come up with a collective answer to the more pressing issue of what AI could do to the economy. There needs to be these coalitions of unlikely allies, and unions have got to be part of that with business,” he said. “Otherwise, it’s going to be five trillionaires, a booming stock market and 30 per cent unemployment. And that’s a society that is falling apart.”