Amazon 's preview Spring Sale includes some seriously strong deals on robot vacuums. If you're new to the world of automated dust-suckers — or, to be honest, even if you have a little experience in this area — telling these near-identical puck-shaped bots apart can be a challenge. Price tags vary wildly, so how do you know which ones to buy and which to avoid? I spent two years reviewing robovacs on TechRadar, during which time I built up a pretty good picture of which brands to trust, which ones to avoid, and what makes for a good deal. Below, I've rounded up the deals I'd recommend. These include some of the best robot vacuums I've used, and many of them at new, cheapest-ever prices. If you want more guidance on what to buy, scroll down the page to learn more about my picks, plus some advice on what to avoid. • View the full Amazon Big Spring Sale preview Officially, the Amazon Big Spring Sale doesn't start until 25 March, but there are plenty of early deals live now, including these robovac bargains. I'm not expecting prices on these models to drop further. If you want to be extra-careful you could hold on until next week to hit the Buy button, but I probably wouldn't do that on the ones marked 'Limited Time Deal'. The best robot vacuum deals from the Amazon Spring Sale What to look for in a robot vacuum deal The bots I've included here all come from brands that consistently score highly in our reviews, and which can be relied up to deliver a quality product. Roborock is probably my favorite robot vacuum brand, but I've also been very impressed with Dreame bots, and Eufy also crops up regularly in our robovac ranking roundups. Within those brands, one key driver on price will be to do with capabilities — for instance, whether the bot's dock will wash and dry its mop pads or if you'll have to do it yourself. My guide to how to choose a robot vacuum goes into more detail on what to look for and what to expect. My advice is to avoid anything that doesn't come from an established brand, no matter how cheap it may be. Robot vacuums are complex beasts and from experience, a bad robovac is worse than no robovac at all. We've also been quite underwhelmed by the newest Roombas from iRobot, so I'd personally give that brand a miss at the moment, too.