Asus ROG Cetra Open: Two-minute review I’ve become very fond of open earbuds recently, and was pretty excited when Asus announced the ROG Cetra Open . If you’re not familiar with the open ear style, they’re basically earbuds that clip onto your ears and have drivers that sit a few millimeters away from your ear canal rather than plug with a silicon tip. They’re incredibly comfortable to wear and help you maintain awareness of your surroundings, which is great when you're out and about and would rather avoid getting hit by passing bikes and the like. The trade-off is generally that you lose out on noise cancellation, isolation, and the earbuds’ ability to effectively produce bass. Open earbuds seem like a bit of a strange choice for gaming, given the fact that they are usually towards runners or gymgoers, but I think Asus might be on to a winner with the concept. The level of comfort they offer is second to none, and I always appreciate the ability to hear myself while chatting in a match. Unfortunately, the Asus ROG Cetra Open really stumble, presumably as a result of being the brand’s first pair of open gaming earbuds . For starters, they’re ridiculously expensive at an eye-watering $229.99 / £174.99 - that’s more than many of the best wireless gaming headsets and triple excellent non-gaming alternatives such as the Huawei FreeArc Buds. While the Asus pair does sound much better overall and has vastly superior microphones, they’re still not worth such a higher cost in my eyes. The case that they sit in is also absurdly massive. It’s big enough to be uncomfortable in your pocket and, at the point you have to carry around a rucksack just to have space for your earbuds, it’s safe to say something has gone seriously wrong in the design department. To make matters worse, it feels very hollow and plasticky, which is unacceptable in a product at this price. All of this leaves the Asus ROG Cetra Open difficult to recommend outside of a sale or if you’re really, really desperate for an open gaming pair. Hopefully, the brand’s next attempt is cheaper and more feature-dense, because there is real potential here. (Image credit: Future) Asus ROG Cetra Open: Price and availability Cost $229.99 / £174.99 / around AU$330 Available via the Asus website, Amazon, and Newegg Very expensive for gaming earbuds The Asus ROG Cetra Open earbuds retail for $229.99 / £174.99 and can be purchased via the Asus website in the US and UK, in addition to Amazon and Newegg in the US. Sign up for breaking news, reviews, opinion, top tech deals, and more. At this price, they’re substantially more expensive than our current favorite premium gaming buds, the SteelSeries Arctis GameBuds , which go for $159.99 / £159.99 / AU$359, and you’re paying a massive premium for the open design. For PlayStation owners, the $199.99 / £179.99 / AU$249.95 Sony Inzone Buds are another major competitor, while the PlayStation Pulse Explore earbuds are also in the mix, and offer out-of-the-box PlayStation Portal compatibility too. They’re also pretty pricey compared to other open earbuds, costing much more than the Huawei FreeArc Buds and Honor Earbuds Open, but less than the super premium Bose Ultra Open Earbuds. Asus ROG Cetra Open: Specs Swipe to scroll horizontally Price $229.99 / £174.99 / around AU$330 Weight 0.3oz / 11g (per earbud bud) Compatibility PC, PS5, PS4, Nintendo Switch, Nintendo Switch 2, mobile Connection type Wireless (Bluetooth / 2.4GHz dongle) Battery life 16+ hours (48+ hours with case) Features Immersion mode, RGB lighting, EQ settings Software Gear Link (web) Asus ROG Cetra Open: Design and features Generic, cheap-looking design Browser-based software A few gaming features I’ll be completely honest here: I absolutely hate how the Asus ROG Cetra Open looks. They’re bulky and weirdly angular for a pair of open earbuds, and look nowhere near as sleek and stylish as the alternatives by Huawei and Honor. In fact, they look more like they’re by a weirdly named off-brand that you would find scrolling too far down Amazon rather than a major hardware manufacturer. This certainly isn’t helped by the RGB lighting with its overly garish default rainbow pattern, or the fact that the plastic materials used on each bud don’t feel too premium. The case is just as hideous and, worse still, comically large: it’s only slightly more compact than the average mid-size phone and about four times as thick. This makes it difficult to fit in a pocket and annoying to bring around with you. Sure, lots of open-ear buds have cases on the bulkier side, but I’ve not used any quite as impractical as this. I don’t quite understand why Asus is advertising these earbuds so heavily as suitable for sports, as a result of this, as surely anyone running or at the gym would favor something with a case that's more compact. (Image credit: Future) Part of the reason the case is so big is to make room for the 2.4GHz USB-C wireless dongle. The dongle has a pass-through feature, with its own USB-C port that you can use to charge a controller, for example, but it’s an odd L-shape that tends to block more than one port when it’s plugged in. Rather than a traditional application, the Asus ROG Cetra Open relies on a browser-based program called Gear Link. I really appreciate this, as it removes the need to install any software bloat and gives you immediate access to settings on practically any PC or phone when you need them. Major features it lets you tweak include equalizer settings (with pre-sets for gaming, movies, music, and so on), RGB lighting effects, and Immersion Mode. Immersion Mode seems to be some form of active noise cancellation (ANC), though I found that it wasn’t particularly effective at blocking even low-level background sound. There’s also optional multipoint connectivity, letting you pair two devices at once for the times when you want to game while listening to music or taking a phone call. (Image credit: Future) Asus ROG Cetra Open: Performance Sound great with a surprising amount of bass Secure and comfortable fit Microphones are decent For a pair of open earbuds, the Asus ROG Cetra Open sounds great with some surprisingly punchy bass. The sound is crisp and clean, with decent tuning out of the box - though I would still recommend selecting the flat EQ in its software. It’s hard to overstate just how comfortable they are to wear, too. I have used them for an entire day of work with absolutely no discomfort or fatigue, making them some of the most comfortable earbuds that I’ve ever used. They’re very secure on the ears too, and can easily withstand walking or even running. The included neck band can be used for some added peace of mind, too, ensuring that they will stay on your person even if they do come loose. The ability to hear your surroundings is also surprisingly useful, though it does come with some drawbacks. If you’re using these headphones in an office environment, you can easily chat to others without taking them out of yours and when exercising outdoors, you don’t need to worry about drowning out oncoming traffic. In a gaming context, though, it’s a bit of a double-edged sword. You’re going to hear pretty much everything in your surroundings, even if you’re playing at home, which makes it difficult to get truly immersed. The headphones do have an Immersion Mode feature, which seemingly enables some kind of ANC, but it’s not effective at blocking noise at all. The microphones of the Asus ROG Cetra Open are decent for a pair of earbuds. They’re not broadcast quality by any means, but they do a decent job picking up your voice and will ensure that you can be heard clearly in most situations. The battery life is also nothing to complain about, with around 16 hours of use for each bud and an additional three charges held in the case. The included dongle makes it easy to use the headphones with consoles, and cuts down potential latency, though I do find its L shape design a little awkward. If you’re not careful, it can block adjacent USB ports, though it does offer USB-C passthrough that somewhat mitigates this annoyance. (Image credit: Future) Should I buy the Asus ROG Cetra Open? Buy it if… Don’t buy it if… Also consider... After some alternatives to the Asus ROG Cetra Open? Here’s one gaming model and one more general pair of open earbuds to consider. Swipe to scroll horizontally Row 0 - Cell 0 Asus ROG Cetra Open SteelSeries Arctis GameBuds Huawei FreeArc Buds Price $229.99 / £174.99 / around AU$330 $159.99 / £159.99 / AU$359 £99.99 (around $130 / AU$200) Weight 0.3oz / 11g (per earbud bud) 0.19oz / 5.3g (each bud); 1.7oz / 48.7g (case) 0.31oz / 8.9 g (per bud) Compatibility PC, PS5, PS4, Nintendo Switch, Nintendo Switch 2, mobile GameBuds for PlayStation: PS5, PS4, Nintendo Switch, PC, Mac, Meta Quest 2/3, mobile; GameBuds for Xbox: Xbox Series X|S, Xbox One, PS5, PS4, Nintendo Switch, PC, Mac, Meta Quest 2/3 Mobile Connection type Wireless (Bluetooth / 2.4GHz dongle) 2.4Ghz (via USB-C), Bluetooth 5.3 (mobile) Wireless (Bluetooth) Battery life 16+ hours (48+ hours with case) Up to 40 hours (buds 10 hours; case 30 hours) 7 hours (earbuds), 23 hours (total) Features Immersion mode, RGB lighting, EQ settings 360° Spatial Audio, Qi Wireless Charging Case, 6mm neodymium drivers, four-mic ANC, transparency mode, in-ear detection/sensor, IP55 rating, fast charge, companion app with more than 100 presets Companion app Software Gear Link (web) Arctis Companion App (mobile), SteelSeries Sonar (PC) Huawei AI Life (mobile) How I tested the Asus ROG Cetra Open Tested for more than a month Used for gaming and general music listening Compared against other open earbuds and gaming earbuds I tested the Asus ROG Cetra Open earbuds for more than a month, using them as my go-to headphones for practically everything in that time. I spent hours using them for gaming on both PC and PS5 in addition to taking calls with friends over Discord. I took them with me daily to the office too, wearing them outside to listen to music and for taking meetings at work, Throughout my time with the earbuds, I compared them frequently to many of the best gaming earbud models, particularly the SteelSeries Arctis GameBuds. I also evaluated them against open earbuds that I have tried, like the Honor Earbuds Open and Huawei FreeArc Buds. Read more about how we test First reviewed March 2026