NymVPN's latest update unveils a new UI and bug fixes A new streamlined static DNS makes bypassing network restrictions easier The update is now live, but Apple users need to wait a bit longer NymVPN has just dropped its latest software update, bringing some much-needed quality-of-life improvements and stronger anti-censorship tools to the privacy-focused provider. However, if you rely on Apple hardware to stay secure online, you'll need to sit tight for a little while longer. The newly released v2026.5 patch focuses heavily on giving users better visibility over their data consumption and stamping out some frustrating software bugs. But the most exciting addition for privacy purists is the quiet overhaul of the service's domain name system (DNS) infrastructure, which is designed to keep users connected even in heavily restricted regions. The release landed just days after the provider outlined its ambitious two-year roadmap , detailing plans to transition to pure UDP and push mixnet speeds up to five times faster. As NymVPN aims to compete with the best VPN services on the market, this latest update acts as a solid stepping stone toward that broader 2026 vision. Article continues below Data displays and squashed bugs (Image credit: NymVPN) One of the most immediate changes you will notice is the new data usage interface . The revamped UI gives you a clear, visual display of exactly how much data you have consumed and how much is left on your current plan. This visual upgrade arrives alongside a crucial fix for a widely reported glitch. Previously, an erroneous warning message would tell users their "bandwidth limit" had been reached, totally blocking their access to the VPN until they added more data. The provider has officially squashed the bug, noting: "This has been fixed, meaning no more needing top-ups from the Nym team!" The update also bakes in some handy diagnostic tools across its different clients. Windows and Linux users get a new logging tool to streamline bug reporting, while an optional toggle for error-log sharing has been added to iOS. "Please consider turning it on so that the Nym team can better identify and fix issues you encounter with your NymVPN app," the provider stated, reassuring users that "all data shared is anonymous". Tougher censorship resistance and Apple delays While the bug fixes are welcome, the heavy lifting of this update happens under the hood. NymVPN has upgraded its DNS routing to offer a more "streamlined interaction with the static DNS underpinning the HTTP client to improve censorship resistance." In short, the VPN should now be even tougher for restrictive networks and authoritarian firewalls to block. Unfortunately, not everyone gets to play with the new tools right away. Android, Windows, and Linux users can upgrade immediately, but Apple fans are facing frustrating delays. The iOS update is stuck in the notoriously sluggish Apple App Store review process. Things are slightly more complicated for Mac users. The macOS update has been held back because "More testing was needed on a core new feature." According to Nym, the delayed macOS version "will follow shortly this week." Other minor tweaks in the patch include fixes for a crashing bug on Android when changing languages and a patched alternative login display issue for Linux. Follow TechRadar on Google News and add us as a preferred source to get our expert news, reviews, and opinion in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!