Capcom and Ubisoft game developers weren't informed about Nvidia DLSS 5 being used by their publisher One developer stated they found out 'at the same time' as the public Former Rockstar game dev condemns DLSS 5, claiming it's a 'complete AI re-render' Nvidia is under fire for its latest reveal of DLSS 5 , and rightly so, particularly after CEO Jensen Huang's response to the ongoing backlash for its generative AI use — and the latest revelation could make the controversy much worse. As reported by Insider Gaming , Capcom and Ubisoft game developers apparently weren't informed by their publishers regarding their involvement in Nvidia's DLSS 5. This comes after Jensen Huang stated gamers are "completely wrong" about Nvidia's "content-control generative AI". One of the Ubisoft developers stated, "We found out at the same time as everyone else". Similarly, Capcom developers were reportedly shocked by the publisher's involvement, considering its "anti-AI" stance. Article continues below (Image credit: Nvidia / Capcom) This is so disrespectful to the intentional art direction of devs.
If devs wanted to lean in to hyper realism they would. This also drastically changes key aspects of visuals like character features, focal points, lighting and so on.
What a terrible invention. Nvidia should shelve this one 😭 — @kortizart.bsky.social ( @kortizart.bsky.social.bsky.social ) 2026-03-19T12:33:20.060Z Game developers across multiple studios and publishers have shared the same sentiment (as evident above). Notably, a former Rockstar developer, Mike York (known as York Street Gaming on YouTube ), implied that DLSS 5 poses a significant threat to game art, considering the changes it makes to character models. "This isn't just some lighting, this is like a complete AI re-render," York said. "You're no longer looking at the game [ Resident Evil Requiem ] anymore. This is scary. This is like an AI filter over every frame." While Nvidia and Bethesda's Todd Howard have consistently tried to reassure gamers that DLSS 5 use in games will be controlled and tuned by developers, it hasn't done much to allay concerns — and it's not a big surprise, as many are already opposed to generative AI in sectors outside of gaming. As of its initial reveal, it takes two RTX 5090 s to utilize DLSS 5, and that may scale down to one GPU by the time it launches this autumn. However, gamers, developers, and frankly, the majority of consumers online have made it clear that generative AI is not wanted in gaming, and certainly not when it's changing character model details, which is integral to developers' intended art. Sign up for breaking news, reviews, opinion, top tech deals, and more. The best graphics cards for all budgets Follow TechRadar on Google News and add us as a preferred source to get our expert news, reviews, and opinion in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button! And of course you can also follow TechRadar on TikTok for news, reviews, unboxings in video form, and get regular updates from us on WhatsApp too.