On Friday, the CNBC Investing Club held its March Monthly Meeting, where Jim Cramer and Director of Portfolio Analysis Jeff Marks discussed their views on each stock in the portfolio. The war in Iran broke out less than a day after our last monthly call, so the market backdrop has changed a bunch. The big winners over the past few weeks have been the energy stocks, and some niche plays like the fertilizer makers. It's been tougher sledding for tech stocks, but Jim doesn't believe it's time to call it quits on the group. Far from it. Here's our rapid-fire update on the 32-stock portfolio, beginning with his thoughts on the unloved tech stocks and other AI trade constituents before moving into the rest. Plus, look for the five stocks Jim said to buy. We flagged those below in bold. Where we stand on tech and other AI plays Apple : No reason to sell any shares of the iPhone maker here. Sales have picked up in China, and its rumored lineup of phones this fall, namely its first foldable device, are quite exciting. Plus, it has managed to ink a deal with the best Siri companion in the world, Google's Gemini model, without needing to shell out a $100 billion in capital expenditures. Own it, don't trade it. Amazon : Cloud unit Amazon Web Services growth is no longer looking like it's lagging behind Microsoft Azure. AWS' business is accelerating, thanks in no small part to its relationship with Anthropic. AWS is where the margins are, and I think that Amazon's margins will surprise next quarter. Cisco Systems : The networking giant delivered a beat-and-raise quarter last month, but the stock was crushed anyway because of higher memory costs. It's since been working its way back, and recent headlines around Google's memory innovations have supported the stock, too. GE Vernova : The data center shows no signs of slowing down, and that's good news for the natural gas turbine maker. While the Iran war has caused a surge in oil and overseas gas prices, U.S. natural gas futures haven't moved much due to our booming domestic production. That is a positive for the data centers running on natural gas. Eaton : The best electrical equipment specialist, bar none. Plus, it made a smart acquisition of Boyd Thermal to gain exposure to the data-center cooling business. No matter what category you want to put Eaton in, it's simply a company that makes really good products that are in strong demand. Corning : Data centers are filled with copper wiring, which is terrific if you want to save money. But if you want your electricity not to degrade, you'd better use fiber. Nobody makes better fiber than Corning. Qnity : The maker of high-performance materials used in semiconductor and electronics production was previously buried inside the DuPont conglomerate. It's been a big winner since it was spun out in the fall. Qnity's last quarter was amazing, and it is only now being discovered by more investors. CrowdStrike : Shares were caught up in another bout of software disruption carnage Friday. But when you listen to CEO George Kurtz talk about what AI is doing to the cyberattack landscape, as he did Thursday night on "Mad Money," it's difficult to see anything but real tailwinds for the security business. AI model makers like Anthropic aren't serious about the security profession. It's a bit like dentists trying to do brain surgery. Yes, CrowdStrike is expensive, but there's a price to be paid to be the best there is. Palo Alto Networks : We don't need to own two cybersecurity names anymore, and CrowdStrike is the horse we're betting on. Salesforce : The company's Agentforce product is seeing impressive adoption, but the legacy part of its software portfolio isn't doing as well. And the AI disruption concerns are a tough bear thesis to disprove. Salesforce's $25 billion buyback wasn't enough to turn the tide. We want to see this one through. Microsoft : This one is vexing, as it's gone from AI early mover, thanks to its prescient partnership with OpenAI, to a laggard. What's keeping us around is concerns that the moment we sell, CEO Satya Nadella and CFO Amy Hood will release new AI tools that turn into overnight sensations. Those leaders are too smart, too experienced to bet against. Meta Platforms : Do we love Meta's massive data center spending? Not on the surface, but we are admirers of CEO Mark Zuckerberg's track record. Did Meta lose some lawsuits involving some painful addictions to its product? Yes, but we don't see Meta becoming the tobacco of 2026. Our view is that Meta has the facts on its side, and we're looking to add to our position when we can. Alphabet : The seamless experience of core Google Search plus Gemini — paired with the Apple Siri partnership, the profit geyser of YouTube, and fast-growing Google Cloud — adds up to a stock worth owning. Plus, it's a stock Jim would like to buy more of. Broadcom : We like investing in people and products. CEO Hock Tan and his networking products and custom chip design services keep winning business. When we see businesses going away, we will change our minds. Nvidia : Leaving the stock here during this swoon would be a major mistake. It has gone through these periods of underperformance before, but everything we heard at its GTC developers event makes us steadfast in our belief in Nvidia as the main enabler of the AI revolution. The stock is trading below 20 times earnings. And yet, the earnings estimates will likely prove to be too low, meaning shares are cheaper than they look. This is a great level to do some buying. The rest of the portfolio Capital One : While we wait for Capital One to become the true competitor to American Express after its brilliant purchase of Discover, it has gone from $160 to $259 and back. Of course, we wish we had sold at the top. But we still expect the huge synergies will be realized, and eventually the stock won't be as hostage to interest rates and the war. Goldman Sachs : Goldman was made for this moment — its trading desks are built to capitalize on volatile markets, and some massive initial public offerings (IPOs) look to be on the table later this year. Not to mention, mergers and acquisitions have picked up. Wells Fargo : We trimmed Wells above $93 a share earlier this year. Now it's pulled back into the high $70s. We bought some more earlier this month. The stock still looks tempting. Costco : The retailer is having a comeback after a middling 2025. Costco's same-store sales growth is extraordinary, and we're excited to watch its experiment of opening standalone gas stations , which could be a catalyst for membership growth. TJX Companies : TJX is the best retailer in this country, save for Costco and Walmart , and its stock fetches a much lower price-to-earnings multiple than those two giants. Don't count on seeing TJX on our sell list. Home Depot : Unlike Costco and TJX, this one is a real disappointment. The housing market has not cooperated, and its push into serving professional contractors hasn't been able to move the needle, given that activity is sluggish everywhere. However, we doubt the Federal Reserve's next move will be a rate hike, which makes us want to keep this stock around. Starbucks : CEO Brian Niccol has clearly improved the coffee chain, even if its challenges were greater than what he faced when he led Chipotle . Have patience with this one. There is a line of sight to a real inflection point that will take shares to the triple digits. Nike : There isn't a line of sight here. While we still believe in CEO Elliott Hill, we need to see more evidence of the turn by the fall to justify keeping the stock in the portfolio. We own enough shares for now. Linde : The industrial gas supplier is taking advantage of helium disruptions in the Middle East by going after long-term supply agreements. Linde has a ton of helium already, and it's doing a nice job of capitalizing on what may ultimately be a short-term phenomenon. Honeywell : Honeywell is in the same purgatory we found DuPont when it split up. But Honeywell is inching up, as people anticipate receiving shares of a pure-play aerospace company and an automation and security company. This is a buy-on-dips stock. DuPont : We feel the same way about DuPont, which is now much more tied to the health-care and water end markets than before the Qnity separation. Those are excellent businesses to be levered to. It's now such a small company, though, that we wonder whether it can stay independent. Dover : This old-fashioned conglomerate has a lot of dry powder, and it might be able to pick up some industrials from private-equity firms that have to make forced sales stemming from the private-credit fiasco. Boeing : Shares are ridiculously low. Hardly a week goes by that it doesn't win big orders. The stock may not look cheap on its face, but we're itching to buy more when the time is right. Once the Iran war is over, this stock could get its mojo back. Bristol Myers Squibb : Our optimism on Cobenfy has not panned out. We are lucky, though, because the industry is attracting a lot of value buyers, and the stock is being swept up in that wave. We're indifferent about the stock after this run. Cardinal Health : The drug distributor has gone the wrong way since we initiated our stake on March 2, in the early days of the war in Iran. We didn't expect that because its quarterly results were so strong. Stock picking is a humbling business, Jim said. We bought more earlier this week, so our position is too big now to keep aggressively buying more. Eli Lilly : The stock has had a rough start to the year, but we want to hold on, especially with the looming launch of its GLP-1 obesity pill. That could hit the market within a few weeks, and the company has stockpiled supply to be ready to meet demand. Investors are concerned that main rival Novo Nordisk could get aggressive on price cuts to steal market share from Lilly. That is a real risk, but Lilly has said it can overcome price pressures with volume gains. Procter & Gamble : What a hit we had on P & G since taking a stake in the fall. Then the war broke out, and it looks like a miss. But we see real value here . If you look at this as a long-term investment, then this is a level to buy. (See here for a full list of the stocks in Jim Cramer's Charitable Trust.) As a subscriber to the CNBC Investing Club with Jim Cramer, you will receive a trade alert before Jim makes a trade. Jim waits 45 minutes after sending a trade alert before buying or selling a stock in his charitable trust's portfolio. If Jim has talked about a stock on CNBC TV, he waits 72 hours after issuing the trade alert before executing the trade. THE ABOVE INVESTING CLUB INFORMATION IS SUBJECT TO OUR TERMS AND CONDITIONS AND PRIVACY POLICY , TOGETHER WITH OUR DISCLAIMER . NO FIDUCIARY OBLIGATION OR DUTY EXISTS, OR IS CREATED, BY VIRTUE OF YOUR RECEIPT OF ANY INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH THE INVESTING CLUB. NO SPECIFIC OUTCOME OR PROFIT IS GUARANTEED.