Social media accounts officially representing Crimson Desert have apologized for prior dismissive language regarding Intel GPUs. “We apologize for any confusion our FAQ wording from several hours ago regarding playability on Intel Arc GPUs may have caused,” said a statement on X. Furthermore, it is made clear that work is now taking place to implement compatibility and optimize for Intel Arc graphics processors. Circling back to just before the weekend, the PC gaming community seemed stunned by a blunt statement found in the Crimson Desert FAQ that suggested Intel Arc users simply find something else to play . In brief, that FAQ stated there was no support for Intel Arc GPUs, and if you’d bought the game to play on one of the Blue Team’s graphics cards or iGPUs, you should seek a refund from where you'd bought the game. Many folks found this official statement troubling. Firstly, this is one of the hottest gaming titles around right now. Secondly, we didn’t have any hint of the reasoning behind such a sweeping decision. One must remember that while Intel is a relatively small player in discrete graphics cards, it is the leader in iGPUs. Moreover, its newer generation iGPUs are increasingly impressive. For example, the low-wattage Core Ultra 300H series mobile processors packing Arc B390 graphics can match the classic Nvidia GTX 1060 in modern titles. There’s a decade between their launch dates, but the 1060 is notable for making the grade in the official Crimson Desert minimum specs. Article continues below It is great to see the Crimson Desert devs change tack on Intel graphics. We reported a short time after the ‘no Arc gamers’ FAQ find, that Intel had reached out to developer Pearl Abyss “many times” concerning collaborative efforts. Intel stated in an email to Tom’s Hardware that it was “hugely disappointed that players using Intel graphics hardware can’t jump into the world of Pywel at launch.” Intel wrapped up its message by saying it was ready to assist the game devs however it could. Perhaps, this chipmaking heavyweight’s clear disappointment and offers of help oiled the wheels deep at Pearl Abyss. “We are currently working on compatibility and optimization support so that Crimson Desert can also be enjoyed on Intel Arc GPU systems,” said the official social media account for the game today. “We are preparing to provide a smooth and stable gameplay experience, and we ask for your patience until the support update becomes available.” For those interested in more Crimson Desert news and features, we recently shared our CPU scaling test results . Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News , or add us as a preferred source , to get our latest news, analysis, & reviews in your feeds. Get Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.