The formula is now copied into all the rows in the rightmost column. Howard Wen / Foundry 6. Use Enhanced Smart Fill (or turn it off) The Smart Fill feature in Google Sheets is an automation tool that assists you as you work on your spreadsheet. It’s been enhanced to use Gemini to detect patterns in your data. As you enter data in cells, it may offer to fill out subsequent cells for you. For example: After you finish entering values into a few rows, Smart Fill may suggest that it automatically add more rows for you, and supply the values for those cells. This suggestion may be triggered after you do the same task to your spreadsheet three or more times. Smart Fill can suggest autofill values based on Gemini’s analysis of the data you’ve already entered. Howard Wen / Foundry Other Smart Fill behaviors: Categorizing: Analyzing the text in the cells of a column and filling in the cells of an adjacent column with corresponding category names. Extracting: Extracting the ZIP codes from the addresses listed in a column and inserting them into a new column. Standardizing: Converting values in a column that have been entered in inconsistent formats. For example, it can offer to convert both “sept 1st, 2026” and “9/6/26” into a uniform “YYYY-MM-DD” format. A Smart Fill suggestion appears as a faded outline or a bubble showing its predicted range of values. If you want to accept the suggestion, click the outline or checkmark on the Auto Fill notice card. If you don’t want to accept, click the X icon on this card. Turning Enhanced Smart Fill off or on If you find that these Smart Fill suggestions get in your way as you work on your spreadsheet, or simply don’t work well for you, you can turn off the feature. Turning off Enhanced Smart Fill. Howard Wen / Foundry On the menu bar above your spreadsheet, select Tools > Suggestion controls > Enable enhanced Smart Fill suggestions to uncheck it. Select it again to turn it back on (the checkmark reappears). Note: Turning off Enhanced Smart Fill does not disable the basic Smart Fill feature, which doesn’t use Gemini. It uses simpler logic to suggest sequential numbering or extracting text. Related reading: