This is Lowpass by Janko Roettgers , a newsletter on the ever-evolving intersection of tech and entertainment, syndicated just for The Verge subscribers once a week. Meta and its AI glasses hardware partner EssilorLuxottica are getting ready to launch the next generation of their Ray-Ban AI glasses. That’s according to a series of FCC filings for two new Meta Ray-Ban models that were published by the agency earlier this month. The filings describe the tested devices as production units, suggesting that Meta may launch them soon. When the company unveiled its second-generation Ray-Bans in late 2023, it did so a little over a month after the devices passed through the FCC. Meta did not immediately respond to a request for comment. As is customary, the FCC filings are heavily redacted, so we don’t know yet exactly what the two models will look like, or what new features they will offer. However, the filings did reveal a few interesting details: Some of the included documents identify the marketing names for the new models as “RayBan Meta Scriber” and “RayBan Meta Blazer,” while also noting that the “Blazer” model will be available in a regular and a large size. The documents do mention a charging case as being part of the tests, suggesting that the new Ray-Bans will once again feature a case you can use to charge them on the go. The model numbers for Meta’s Blazer and Scriber glasses are RW7001 and RW7002, respectively. That in itself is noteworthy, as currently available first- and second-gen Meta Ray-Ban model numbers range from RW4002 to RW4014. The big jump in the model number could suggest a significant hardware upgrade, perhaps including a newer chipset. Another difference between current-gen Ray-Bans and the two new models revealed in these FCC filings: The new models make use of the Wi-Fi 6 UNII-4 band , which could add reliability to high-speed data transfers — a feature that could come in handy for both livestreaming and any AI features that require live video transmission. Ray-Ban AI glasses have proven to be a hit for Meta and EssilorLuxottica: The two companies sold more than seven million pairs last year, according to EssilorLuxottica’s most recent earnings report. Sales for 2023 and 2024 combined amounted to two million units. The company is looking to ramp up manufacturing capacity to 20–30 million units annually by the end of this year, Bloomberg reported in January. Meta also expanded its partnership with EssilorLuxottica in 2025, launching a first pair of Oakley-branded AI glasses , as well as a first pair of Ray-Ban Display glasses with an integrated monocular display. “Sales of our glasses more than tripled last year, and we think that they’re some of the fastest growing consumer electronics in history,” said Mark Zuckerberg during the company’s most recent earnings call, adding: “For Reality Labs, we’re directing most of our investment towards glasses and wearables going forward.” As part of this shift in priorities, Meta has been significantly reducing its VR investments. The company laid off 1,000 Reality Labs employees earlier this year, shuttered multiple VR game studios, and followed up with additional job cuts Wednesday. As part of these cutbacks, Meta also planned to shut down its Horizon Worlds metaverse project in VR. However, the company reversed this decision last week in response to pleas from VR users. Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Janko Roettgers AI Column Gadgets Lowpass Meta Tech Wearable