So, you have either purchased one of the Galaxy S26 phones or are planning to do so, and you’re on the lookout for the right accessories; that’s great. Getting the basic accessories right — including the protective cases, chargers, power banks, and the external storage drives — is almost as important as picking the right smartphone. But with hundreds of options in the market, choosing the right one can get very tricky. That’s exactly what we’re addressing with this roundup. Presenting before you some of the best Galaxy S26 accessories, each with its unique advantage, all from reputable brands. Best Galaxy S26 cases Getting the right protective case for your Galaxy S26 is almost as important as getting an insurance, as it protects the back cover or the screen from shattering when you accidentally push your smartphone from a table or drop it from your pocket. And yes, you’ll need a magnetic case to enable Qi2 wireless charging , as none of the S26 models have a built-in magnetic profile . Spigen Ultra Hybrid MagFit Spigen / Amazon Why does this one stand out? The Spigen Ultra Hybrid MagFit is a clear case that comes with a strong magnetic ring. It lets you show off your Galaxy S26’s color (especially if you have the online exclusive shades) while unlocking the convenience of magnetically attaching Qi2-compatible accessories. It’s not like this one won’t turn yellow, but it will do so much later than the regular, dime-a-dozen clear cases do. And yes, the phone can handle drops from 1.2 meters, which is quite respectable for something that maintains such a low profile. At $17.98 on Amazon, the case is a no-brainer. ESR Rugged Drop Protection Case ESR / Amazon Why does this one stand out? If you’re someone who tends to drop their phone quite often (like twice or thrice a week), the ESR’s rugged case with seven times drop protection that the regular military-grade certification could act as a cheaper insurance (up to 23 feet). In addition to its drop protection, the case also comes with a built-in alloy metal stand that doubles as the camera guard. Furthermore, it also supports magnetic wireless charging, so your Qi2 accessories won’t budge easily. At $26.99, the ESR rugged case offers a relatively sleek profile compared to traditional rugged cases . dBrand Grip Case (MagSafe Compatible) dBrand Why does this one stand out? The dBrand Grip case provides both magnetic wireless charging and military-grade drop protection, but that’s not what it’s known for. The $59.90 bundle includes the Grip Case (which enhances the in-hand grip), shell, and the back panel skin, which completely changes how your phone looks. We have also included this in our iPhone Air cases roundup . You can choose from over 40+ quirky designs, including real leather, carbon fiber, glow-in-the-dark, and holographic finishes. The chamfered front lip and lowered crescent arc sides also keep edge-swipe gestures unobstructed, a detail most case makers ignore entirely. Samsung Silicone Magnet Case Samsung Why does this one stand out? For those who believe in first-party accessories, Samsung has plenty of options to choose from. However, to maintain a variety in the list, I’m including the Silicone Magnet Case. It is available for all the handsets in the series. It is a bit expensive at $54.99, but for the price, you get a grippy silicone case with a magnetic ring on the back, a snug fit around the curves and the frame of your Galaxy S26, raised lips around the camera module, and the ability to use Qi2-compatible accessories. Furthermore, you can choose from six different colors, based on your Galaxy S26’s finish. Best Galaxy S26 chargers and power banks Like Apple or Google , Samsung doesn’t provide a power adapter in the box with the Galaxy S26 series. So, if you don’t already have a USB-C charger that supports PD (Power Delivery) and PPS (Programmable Power Supply) for wired charging, or Qi2 for wireless charging, chances are you’d need one, and that’s exactly where these recommendations will help you. Samsung 60W PD Power Adapter Samsung Why does this one stand out? I know that there are third-party charges that offer the same charging speed at a lower price, but the Samsung 60W PD adapter is for those who want absolute peace of mind for their $1,300 Galaxy S26 Ultra . The $54.99 60W PD Power Adapter supports the Ultra’s Super Fast Charging 3.0 speeds (USB PD 3.1 with PPS), recharging the 5,000 mAh battery to 75% in around 30 minutes, and a full top-up takes about 50 minutes. Anker 45W USB-C Charger Anker / Amazon Why does this one stand out? Samsung’s 60W charging brick is an excellent pick for the Galaxy S26 Ultra, but if you’re going with the slightly less expensive G alaxy S26 or the Galaxy S26 Plus, you won’t be able to utilize its full potential. In that case, you can buy the Anker Ace 45W USB-C charger at a fraction of its price. For $19.99, the Anker charger supports Samsung’s Super Fast Charging 2.0, though you have to arrange a 5A cable as well (if you don’t already have one). Other reasons to consider this one are its compact form factor, foldable design, and the fact that it is based on GaN technology. Ugreen Nexode 65W Multi-Device Charger Ugreen / Amazon If you have multiple devices on your nightstand — including a Galaxy S26, a smartwatch, and a tablet — you’re better off with a multi-device charger. One like Ugreen Nexode 65W PD USB-C wall charger, with two USB-C ports and one USB-A port. It’s portable (thanks to GaN technology), can charge a variety of devices from multiple brands (including Samsung, Apple, Google, etc.), offers up to 65W PD output from either of the USB-C ports or 22.5W QC from the USB-A port (when charging one device), and up to 45W (USB-C) from one USB-C port when charging two or more devices. Of course, you’d need compatible charging cables, but once you arrange that, your life will be so much easier than carrying three different chargers. INIU 10,000 Wired Power Bank INUI / Amazon Why does this one stand out? This is a portable power bank with 10,000 mAh capacity, which can charge the S26 Ultra more than once. Capable of delivering up to 45W of output, the $19.99 INIU power bank is among the best budget picks for your Galaxy S26 handset. It’s portable (about the size of a MagSafe wallet but slightly thicker), comes with a short yet useful dual USB-C cable, and can charge up to three devices together (with reduced output, though). And yes, it is flight-safe. Not that it matters much to me, but you can also choose from four colors. Belkin 10,000 mAh Wireless Power Bank Belkin / Amazon Why does this one stand out? If you’re already past the wired charging shenanigans and want a wireless power bank for your Galaxy S26, the Belkin BoostCharge Pro could be a great pick for three reasons. First, it offers 10,000 mAh of battery capacity (enough to completely refill the S26 Ultra’s battery), offers 15W or wireless charging speeds (with Qi2-compatible cases), and comes with a built-in kickstand. It also comes with a 3.3-foot USB-C to USB-C cable in the box, lets you charge three devices at one time, and, most importantly, costs $66.23 on Amazon, about the same price as Samsung’s 5,000 mAh wireless magnetic power bank. Best Galaxy S26 external storage drives The Galaxy S26 series has great cameras, and once you get a taste of them, you’re bound to capture random pictures or videos. Even otherwise, you’ll be using fifty different apps on your Galaxy S26, which takes up quite a lot of storage. At some point, you’ll end up using the entire storage. That’s when you’ll look out for the best Galaxy S26 external storage devices . For professionals, this isn’t an optional expense anyway. Samsung USB-C Flash Drive Samsung / Amazon Why does this one stand out? The Samsung USB-C Flash Drive plugs straight into the S26’s USB-C port, offers up to 400 MB/s of read speeds (which might be lesser in day-to-day usage), and gives you the option to expand your storage by up to 512GB, making it one of the best flash drives on the market. The device is portable enough to get lost in your backpack, which is why it includes a loop for a keychain or tag. The 256GB variant costs $51.99, while the 512GB variant’s price is $104.99, which, in my opinion. SanDisk Portable SSD SanDisk / Amazon Why does this one stand out? If you want higher write/read speeds, perhaps you’re a professional smartphone videographer, the SanDisk 1TB Extreme Portable SSD could be the right pick for you. It offers up to 1000 MB/s of write speeds, so offloading or importing 4K videos on the go is quite easy. It also offers up to three meters of drop protection, is IP65-rated, and has a carabiner loop for adding a key chain.