Check out the companies making headlines before the bell. York Space Systems — The space and defense stock gained 11% after posting full-year revenue that topped analyst expectations. The company's top line totaled $386.2 million, while analysts polled by FactSet expected revenue of $383.5 million. York Space Systems also issued strong revenue guidance for 2026. Super Micro Computer — Shares tumbled more than 26% after U.S. prosecutors charged several company employees with smuggling Nvidia chips to China . FedEx — The package delivery giant popped 9% on fiscal third-quarter results that beat the Street. FedEx earned $5.25 per share, excluding certain items, on revenue of $24 billion. Analysts polled by LSEG expected a profit of $4.09 per share on revenue of $23.43 billion. The company also hiked its fiscal year earnings guidance. Arm Holdings — The U.S.-listed shares of the British semiconductor and software design company rose 2.5% after HSBC issued a double upgrade of Arm to buy from reduce, with a $205 target price implying more than 57% upside from Thursday's close. Analyst Frank Lee said the company is in the middle of a "game-changing" transition to a major AI server CPU beneficiary, from a smartphone dependent IP play, that's underappreciated by the market. Planet Labs — Shares of the satellite imagery company surged about 15% on better-than-expected results for the fourth quarter . Planet Labs broke even on an adjusted basis for the period, while analysts polled by FactSet had forecast a loss of 5 cents per share. First quarter and full-year revenue guidance also exceeded expectations. Chipotle Mexican Grill — Shares of the Mexican fast-food chain edged up more than 1% after Mizuho upgraded the stock to outperform from neutral. The Wall Street firm said it sees a "comp inflection" in the near term along with incremental margin visibility, with recent management commentary serving as a potential positive catalyst. Firefly Aerospace — The space transportation stock gained nearly 7% on fourth-quarter results that topped expectations. Firefly lost 38 cents per share, excluding certain items, on revenue of $57.7 million. Analysts expected a loss of 49 cents per share on revenue of $52.4 million, according to FactSet. Tegna / Nexstar Media Group — Both stocks rose after Nexstar Media Group said it had closed its more than $6 billion acquisition of local news firm Tegna after receiving approval from the Federal Communications Commission. Shares of Tegna popped 9%, while Nexstar ticked up about 1.5%. Scholastic — The publisher and producer of educational content climbed 10% after the company reported a smaller-than-expected loss for the third quarter . Scholastic lost an adjusted 15 cents per share, while analysts polled by FactSet had forecast a loss of 37 cents per share. — CNBC's Fred Imbert, Yun Li, Sarah Min and Michelle Fox contributed reporting