After settling its lengthy antitrust battle over the Android app ecosystem earlier this month, Google said Thursday it will make it easier to install Android apps from outside the Play Store. The company shared new details about an “advanced flow” setting that will allow Android device owners to turn off a verification requirement, which otherwise prevents users from sideloading apps. The tech giant announced last year that it would require all Android apps to be registered by verified developers to be installed on certified Android devices. By doing so, the company aimed to limit the ability of bad actors to distribute malware, conduct financial fraud, and steal users’ personal data through apps outside the Play Store. While additional security mechanisms can help reduce those risks, some Android users want the freedom to install unverified apps and accept the responsibility if those apps turn out to be unsafe. With the new “advanced flow” setting, users will be able to go through a one-time process to disable these additional protections while still helping to prevent scams. The process begins by enabling developer mode in Android’s system settings, a step designed to prevent any accidental triggers or “one-tap” bypasses that bad actors often use in high-pressure scams. Google notes that scammers tend to exploit fear to create a sense of urgency in their victims, using tactics like threats of financial ruin, legal trouble, or harm to a loved one. They also often stay on the phone with the victim and guide them through the process of disabling security protections on their device. Globally, 57% of adults experienced a scam in 2025, according to a report by the Global Anti-Scam Alliance (GASA), cited by Google. Image Credits: Google After enabling developer mode, there’s a quick check designed to make sure that no one is coaching the user to turn off their security protections. Users will then restart their phone and reauthenticate, a process that cuts off any remote access or active phone calls that a scammer may be using to watch what their potential victim is doing. After a one-time, one-day protective waiting period, users will be able to confirm it’s really them who is making the change. Since scammers often rely on manufactured urgency, this waiting period gives users time to think, Google explains. When the period is up, the device owners can use biometric authentication, like a fingerprint or face unlock, or use their device PIN to confirm the change. When the process is complete, Android users will be able to install apps from unverified developers outside the Play Store. Users can choose the option of enabling this for seven days or indefinitely. Google says users will still see a warning that the app is from an unverified developer for safety purposes, but users will be able to bypass this warning with a tap. The company notes that in addition to this new flow, it’s also offering free, limited distribution accounts for students and hobbyists who want to share apps with a small group of up to 20 users without having to verify their account with a government ID and registration fee. The changes follow the settlement of a years-long legal battle between Google and Fortnite maker Epic Games over anticompetitive issues on the Play Store. As a result of the settlement, Google said it would drop its Play Store commissions to 20% on in-app purchases, with another 5% tacked on if app developers choose to use Google’s billing system.