Delhi is likely to experience another spell of light rain on Monday, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast. The IMD has forecast generally cloudy skies and possibility of very light rain accompanied with thunderstorm and lightning during forenoon to afternoon. On Monday morning, commuters in Delhi were greeted by cloudy skies as weather department officials announced continued cloudy conditions over the national capital. Temperatures have also dropped significantly over the past few days giving Delhiites some respite from the March heat. Light rainfall was reported in Noida and Delhi on Monday morning. Yellow alert for Delhi The met office has also issued a 'yellow' alert for parts of the city till around 11:20 am, advising residents to remain cautious during thunderstorm activity. Parts of Delhi witnessed rains on Monday morning, with the India Meteorological Department forecasting light to moderate rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning across most areas of Delhi over the next couple of hours. According to the IMD, gusty winds reaching 30-40 kmph are likely during the spell, affecting areas including Noida, Ghaziabad, Bahadurgarh and adjoining regions. ALSO READ: Ramadan 2026: Ten Eid Mubarak AI prompts you can use to generate and edit images on ChatGPT, Gemini, Meta AI for your Instagram. Check full guide how to use them Delhi has already experienced two spells of very light to light rain under the influence of western disturbances. The first spell was recorded on March 15–16, followed by another from March 19 to 21. The IMD has predicted that the maximum temperature is likely to rise to around 30–32 degrees Celsius on Monday and further to nearly 32–34 degrees Celsius by March 26. Delhi weather today rain Delhi will witness a changing weather pattern this week, with rain chances early on before clearer skies take over. On March 23, cloudy conditions will continue, and Delhi may receive very light rain accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning from the forenoon to afternoon, keeping temperatures between 29°C and 31°C during the day and 15°C to 17°C at night. ALSO READ: Delhi rain artificial or natural and why are social media posts linking it to Microsoft's Bill Gates? Here's what we know From March 24, the rain threat fades, and Delhi will experience partly cloudy skies with temperatures rising to 30–32°C during the day and 14–16°C at night. On March 25, similar partly cloudy conditions will persist, with daytime temperatures climbing slightly to 31–33°C and nights remaining between 14–16°C. By March 26, cloud cover will increase again with generally cloudy skies, while temperatures rise further to 32–34°C during the day and 16–18°C at night, though no significant rain is expected. On March 27 and 28, Delhi will return to partly cloudy skies, with warm daytime temperatures of 32–34°C and mild nights between 16–18°C, marking a gradual shift toward drier and warmer conditions after the brief spell of rain. Ghaziabad weather On March 23, the weather in Ghaziabad will turn mainly clear, with temperatures rising slightly between 18°C and 30°C, and no rain activity likely. On March 24, clear skies will continue, with warmer conditions as temperatures touch around 32°C during the day, keeping the weather dry. On March 25, Ghaziabad will again see mainly clear skies, with temperatures climbing further to around 33°C, and no signs of rain. On March 26, rain chances return, with a generally cloudy sky and light rain expected, while temperatures stay around 18°C to 32°C. On March 27, the weather in Ghaziabad will improve again with mainly clear skies and no rainfall, as temperatures remain steady near 32°C. On March 28, another spell of light rain is likely under generally cloudy skies, with temperatures ranging between 18°C and 31°C. Noida weather On March 22, Noida will see a partly cloudy sky with temperatures ranging between 16°C and 26°C, and no rainfall is expected. On March 23, the weather will turn mainly clear, with temperatures rising to around 29°C during the day, keeping conditions dry. On March 24, clear skies will continue in Noida, with warmer temperatures reaching about 31°C and no signs of rain. On March 25, Noida will again experience mainly clear weather, with daytime temperatures peaking near 33°C, maintaining dry conditions. On March 26, rain chances return in Noida, with a generally cloudy sky and light rain expected, while temperatures stay between 17°C and 32°C. On March 27, the weather will improve again with mainly clear skies and no rainfall, with temperatures holding steady around 32°C. On March 28, another spell of light rain is likely under generally cloudy skies, with temperatures ranging from 17°C to 31°C. Gurugram weather On March 23, partly cloudy conditions will continue in Gurugram, with temperatures around 17°C to 27°C, keeping the weather dry. On March 24, the sky will remain partly cloudy, with temperatures rising slightly to around 28°C during the day and no rain activity. On March 25, similar partly cloudy conditions will persist, with temperatures reaching about 29°C and dry weather continuing. On March 26, rain chances increase, with a partly cloudy sky and one or two spells of rain or thundershowers expected, making it the most active weather day of the week. On March 27, the weather will improve with mainly clear skies and no rainfall, while temperatures stay around 29°C. On March 28, Gurugram will again see partly cloudy skies with temperatures near 30°C, and no significant rain is expected.