P opularity has never been HMRC’s thing. But even by the taxman’s usual standards, this takes some beating — trying to put 2,250 North Sea workers out of a job. And all against the background of an energy crisis caused by the Iran war. The company in question? Petrofac, the former FTSE 100 oil services outfit famous for getting embroiled in a Serious Fraud Office bribery case and then going bust last October. One part of the group was untainted by any nefarious goings-on: its Asset Solutions wing, operating and maintaining 20 oil and gas platforms in the North Sea. On Christmas Eve, its workers got an early festive present: a new future. It was thanks to the Petrofac administrator, Teneo, striking a deal to sell the Aberdeen-based assets business to CB&I, an engineering and construction group from Texas. As joint administrator James Bennett said at the time: “This is a very positive outcome and secures the future of its operations and the roles of many highly skilled people .” Business newsletter The business editor’s exclusive analysis of all the latest financial and economic news. Sign up with one click So, happy days? Not so fast. No sooner was the deal done than HMRC tried to blow it up. The sale was conditional on releasing the business from various liabilities, including more than £1 billion owed to secured creditors and, crucially, settling a long-running dispute with the taxman. It was over HMRC’s claim to be owed £151 million, including £59 million interest, relating to secondary class 1 national insurance contributions for offshore workers that had been employed by two Jersey companies. The taxman’s claim, disputed by Petrofac, went back to the last millennium, spanning 1999 to 2014. Faced with a growing cash shortfall in the asset business, the administrator tried to get a consensual deal with all creditors so that it could quickly close the CB&I transaction. But HMRC refused to play ball. So, Teneo opted for a creditor voluntary arrangement, requiring 75 per cent support, that would see trade creditors recover their money but all the financial ones, including HMRC, forced to take a big loss via the restructuring process. It was approved on January 30 by 86 per cent of creditors, by value, including HSBC and Moelis, which also stood to lose out. Despite warnings that the asset business was running out of money and that the CB&I deal could keel over, putting thousands of jobs and a supply chain of small companies at risk, HMRC appealed against the CVA, claiming it “unfairly prejudiced” its interests. Worse, it waited the maximum 28 days to launch it. On March 12, that was thrown out by an Edinburgh court. But, again, HMRC let it be known it may appeal. So, after all that, finally some good news: the written judgment of Lord Sandison of the Scottish Court of Session has at last brought HMRC to its senses. It has dropped its challenge, enabling the CB&I takeover to go ahead, keeping afloat a business that was in urgent need of a multimillion cash injection. The judgment underlines how destructive HMRC’s stance was, too — even before you get into an obvious point. Surely it makes more financial sense for HMRC to help preserve 2,250 UK jobs and the personal and corporate tax revenues that come with a successful sale of the business than see it collapse over a historical tax claim. That way, all you’d get is an insolvent business, chaos in the supply chain and thousands of workers on the dole — hardly a route to more tax income. Still, as the judgment made clear, even the basic maths failed to stack up. HMRC stood to get a return “18.5 times greater” from the CVA than via an “insolvency process”: 2.23 per cent of its claim versus just 0.12 per cent of it. Lord Sandison also rightly had a pop at the way HMRC failed to even assess “until 2020” that tax going back to 1999 was “due”, with it then making only a “very leisurely” attempt to claim it. As for HMRC, it says: “We note the decision of the court and will not be appealing. The delays to the underlying NICs appeal were largely down to the company’s own restructuring efforts, which we supported the progress of as far as possible.” Try squaring that with what actually happened. Musk’s moonshot Are Jupiter, Venus and Mercury already in alignment ? Or does Elon Musk just want to avoid April Fool’s Day? Whatever, the latest from the Information website is that the $1.75 trillion moonshot, otherwise known as SpaceX, could file its IPO paperwork as early as this week, starting the countdown on a float whose offer size is said to have already grown to $75 billion. That would dwarf the $29.4 billion Saudi Aramco raised at the previous biggest IPO in 2019. Galactic-scale ambition, then, from the Tesla boss, even before allowing for these Iran war markets. And not least when Musk’s rocket company has already undergone a fair bit of financial engineering to prime it for lift-off. A business valued at $800 billion in December’s secondary stock sale was juiced up by Musk to the tune of $200 billion to account for extra income from its Starlink broadband service. Then it had a cash-burning capsule added in xAI at a ludicrous valuation of $250 billion: pretty rich for an AI unit, now also housing the artist formerly known as Twitter, that torched $7.8 billion cash in the first nine months of 2025. And now SpaceX is apparently already worth another $500 billion on top for as much as $1.75 trillion. Not bad for a business forecast to have no more than $24 billion sales this year. Fittingly, this float already looks to be defying financial gravity. Sora way out No wonder OpenAI’s Sam Altman has already junked its Sora app : the creator of some nice AI slop, fuelled by a $1 billion licensing deal with Disney. It had annoyed Breaking Bad ’s Bryan Cranston. Who wants to fall out with Walter White?