Former Top Gear host James May cycled to court as he was charged with keeping a motorcycle which did not meet insurance requirements. Mr May was due to stand trial after being prosecuted by the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA) over an allegation relating to his 50-year-old orange Suzuki motorcycle. The 63-year-old arrived at Lavender Hill Magistrates’ Court by bike on Thursday morning wearing an orange shirt and coat. The charge states that on 17 July of last year, Mr May kept a vehicle – a Suzuki GT750 motorcycle – which did not meet insurance requirements. The Grand Tour star, of west London, did not appear before magistrates and settled the case outside of court, prosecutors told reporters. The DVLA has been contacted for further information. Former Top Gear presenter James May has reached an out-of-court settlement after being charged with keeping a motorcycle which did not meet insurance requirements (Jordan Pettitt/PA Wire) Mr May hosted Top Gear alongside Jeremy Clarkson and Richard Hammond from 2003 until 2015. The trio reunited for The Grand Tour on Amazon’s Prime Video on 2016 where they hosted several series and specials until Clarkson, Hammond and May’s on-screen relationship came to an end in September 2024. James May previously said 2025 was one of the busiest years of his life as he moved on from working with Clarkson and Hammond to focus on other TV and creative projects. Watch Apple TV+ free for 7 day New subscribers only. £9.99/mo. after free trial. Plan auto-renews until cancelled. Try for free ADVERTISEMENT. If you sign up to this service we will earn commission. This revenue helps to fund journalism across The Independent. Watch Apple TV+ free for 7 day New subscribers only. £9.99/mo. after free trial. Plan auto-renews until cancelled. Try for free ADVERTISEMENT. If you sign up to this service we will earn commission. This revenue helps to fund journalism across The Independent. The 63-year-old told the i Paper : “I’ve been thinking about my retirement since I was a teenager – 2025 was going to be my trial retirement year, but I’ve been accepted to speak at a couple of history festivals and charity events, I’ve got two TV series, and then I’m doing a live show in Australia, New Zealand and around the UK.” He continued: “This is the busiest year I’ve had for about a decade. I haven’t had a day off in months.” Former Top Gear presenter James May arrived at Lavender Hill Magistrates’ Court by bike on Thursday morning wearing an orange shirt and coat (Jordan Pettitt/PA Wire) The TV star is also the co-owner of The Royal Oak in Swallowcliffe, Wiltshire, where he has struggled to turn a profit in a testing hospitality environment. He added: “I have a pub, which is very nice, but it doesn’t make me any money and it never has. We made some gin for my pubs, which we turned into a gin brand. “We employ people, and I have to go to America to promote it, but it doesn’t make me any money either.”