Referring to the Iraq case, Nick said: "If you look at the country where this report comes from, it's very high risk because it's a minor and it involves sexual blackmail and then you can see the priority here. The urgency is not high." Nick also showed examples of where some posts encouraging people to join terror groups or commit crimes had not been labelled as top priority. When the trust and safety team had asked to prioritise cases involving young people over political cases, the whistleblower said, they were told not to and to continue to deal with the cases according to the ranking they had been given. Nick said the reason for the prioritisation was that - in his view - the company ultimately cares less about children's safety than it does about maintaining a "strong relationship" with politicians and governments, to avoid regulations or bans which would harm its business. Nick said when he and other staff members raised some of these concerns with management, they were not receptive to it because they "are not being exposed to this content on a day-to-day basis". The trust and safety employee's blunt advice to parents with children using TikTok is: "Delete it, keep them as far away as possible from the app for as long as possible. " TikTok said it rejected the idea that political content is prioritised over the safety of young people and said the claim "fundamentally misrepresents the way their moderation systems operate". The team Nick belongs to is part of a wider safety system which has multiple teams responsible for reviewing complaints about content. TikTok said: "Specialist workflows for certain issues do not result in the deprioritisation of child safety cases, which are handled by dedicated teams within parallel review structures." A TikTok spokesperson said the criticisms "ignore the reality of how TikTok enables millions to discover new interests, find community, and supports a thriving creator economy". The company said accounts for teens have more than 50 preset safety features and settings which are automatically turned on. It also said it invests in technology that helps prevent harmful content from ever being viewed, maintains strict recommendation policies and provides features for people to tailor their experiences.