Israel has invaded Lebanon multiple times in the past decades Image: Adri Salido/Getty Images More than a million people have been displaced across Lebanon as Israeli ground operations expand, sharply worsening humanitarian conditions, the International Committee of the Red Cross and Red Crescent (ICRC) said Monday. Shawky Amine Eddine, the ICRC's Humanitarian Affairs Coordinator in Lebanon, said displacement has surged from the south, the southern suburbs of Beirut and the Bekaa region. "Only 120,000 or 130,000 are accommodated in shelters," he told DW. "The rest are either trying to find places with friends, with families, members or even taking the road at the seaside or even trying to sleep in parkings or in their cars." Lebanon was drawn into the Iran war on March 2 when Tehran‑backed Hezbollah attacked Israel after the killing of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in US-Israeli strikes. Lebanese authorities have reported at least 1,886 deaths and more than 2,100 injuries, but Eddine warned the figures "do not even capture the humanitarian situation in which the affected population is living." Many people have been uprooted multiple times in two years, he said, describing scenes of families enduring storms while sleeping outside. "The humanitarian situation is heartbreaking." Eddine said the Israeli military's shift to ground operations will "definitely result in further displacement and increase the humanitarian needs." "That's why in any situation and in any escalation, the main priority should be to protect the humanitarian civil population and the civilian infrastructure," he added. Despite security risks, the ICRC remains fully operational, supporting hospitals with medical supplies, oxygen and fuel. "The humanitarian needs in Lebanon are immense," he said. "The International Committee of the Red Cross, as well as other partners, including the Lebanese Red Cross and other humanitarian actors are doing our best to try to respond to the needs, but probably the most challenging thing is the scale and the scope of the needs that cannot be covered by a single agency," he added.