Hermès just dropped a new lineup of accessories for fashionistas and tech enthusiasts to obsess over — with one piece priced over $5,000. The French luxury brand is extending its over a decadelong relationship with tech giant Apple, with a new set of leather goods designed to fit your Apple devices. Apple and Hermès have previously teamed up on Apple Watch bands , while Apple has also collaborated with labels like Issey Miyake on limited-edition iPhone accessories. The stars of Hermès' spring tech collection are a series of wireless charging accessories. It starts with a $1,250 Paddock Solo charger that's designed for one device at a time using MagSafe technology. Like many of Hermès' leather goods, it's made from calfskin. The paddock solo charger costs $1,250. Hermès A step up from the Paddock Solo charger is the Yoyo, which Hermès says can charge two devices, like an iPhone, AirPods, or Apple Watch, at the same time. The Yoyo, like the Solo, comes with a USB-C power cord for recharging the wireless charger — but no power adapter. It will run you about $1,750. The paddock yoyo charger costs $1,750. Hermès For $4,225, you can get a wireless charger with a case that charges two MagSafe devices at once. The Paddock Duo Charger with its Petit Paddock Case costs $4,225. Hermès For those who want the ultimate luxury experience from Hermès and Apple, a larger case is available to hold all your fancy charging accessories. The $5,150 Paddock Duo Charger and Grand Paddock Case combine a wireless charger with two MagSafe zones for dual charging with a calfskin leather case that can hold more than one accessory. The Paddock Duo Charger and Grand Paddock Case cost $5,150. Hermès And if you want to top off your brown leather collection with a matching iPhone cardholder, Hermès has you covered. For $810 — more than Apple's new $599 MacBook Neo — you can add a MagSafe calfskin cardholder to your cart. The bounce MagSafe cardholder costs $820. Hermès Most pieces in this Hermès collection cost more than a MacBook Air. Apple sells similar charging cases on its official website that hold charging accessories, and those cost under $100. Hermès, however, is known for its exclusive leather goods, like the Birkin bag , that sell for millions and are hard to get. Still, at these prices, maybe next time Hermès could throw in a wall adapter to go with its leather-bound cases. Apple and Hermès did not immediately respond to requests for comment on the collection.