Indian government bonds inched higher on Wednesday, with yields easing marginally after crude oil prices slipped below the $100-per-barrel mark amid reports of a potential US-Iran ceasefire plan. The benchmark 6.48% 2035 bond yield stood at 6.8633%, compared with its previous close of 6.8681% on Tuesday. Bond yields move inversely to prices. Meanwhile, the yield on the US 10-year Treasury note declined by 5 basis points to 4.338%. The uptick in bond prices followed a sharp decline in crude oil prices, which helped ease inflationary concerns. The benchmark Brent crude contract was nearly 5% lower at $99.60 per barrel, after falling to an intraday low of $97.15. Crude oil prices declined on the recent positive developments in the US-Iran war . Reports said that the US is seeking a month-long ceasefire with Iran to facilitate negotiations aimed at ending the ongoing war in the Middle East. According to reports, US President Donald Trump indicated progress in talks to end the war with Iran, with Washington said to have proposed a 15-point settlement framework. The conflict has disrupted shipments of oil and liquefied natural gas through the Strait of Hormuz , a critical transit route that typically accounts for nearly one-fifth of global oil and gas supply. Elevated crude oil prices remain a key risk for India, the world’s third-largest importer of crude, as they could exacerbate domestic inflationary pressures and widen the current account deficit. Economists warn that if Brent prices sustain above $100 per barrel, India’s current account deficit could exceed 2.5% of GDP, potentially resulting in a balance of payments deficit of around $85 billion. However, gains in the bond prices were capped by supply concerns, as states are scheduled to raise ₹ 39,540 crore through bond issuances on Friday, following a record ₹ 12.31 lakh crore raised in the current financial year, according to a Reuters report. Akshat Garg, Head - Research & Product, Choice Wealth said that lower crude oil prices directly cools inflation expectations, reduces pressure on the current account deficit, and limits the need for aggressive policy tightening — all of which are supportive for bonds. “However, the bond market is currently being driven by more than just oil. Global risk sentiment remains fragile, especially with ongoing geopolitical tensions, which is keeping foreign flows volatile. FPIs have been net sellers, and that continues to put upward pressure on yields. At the same time, the rupee has shown signs of weakness, which typically makes the RBI more cautious in allowing yields to fall sharply,” noted Garg. Bond Market Outlook In the domestic market, liquidity conditions and Reserve Bank of India’s stance will be key. According to Garg, if the central bank leans towards supporting growth and ensures adequate liquidity, yields can drift lower. “But any tightness or higher-than-expected borrowing supply can cap the downside,” he added. He expects Indian government bond yields to stay range-bound with a mild downward bias, rather than seeing any sharp rally immediately. Commenting on the RBI policy stance, Madhavi Arora, Lead Economist at Emkay Global Financial Services, said that the threshold for a conventional rate hike remains high in the face of a supply-side shock. However, she noted that it remains to be seen whether the RBI will continue to maintain abundant liquidity and sub-repo overnight rates. “With the rupee under persistent pressure despite continued foreign exchange intervention — primarily through forward contracts — the associated liquidity impact has been deferred. At the same time, interest rates have been kept in check through the RBI’s bond purchases. A sharp policy response, such as raising overnight rates to curb FX arbitrage, appears unlikely at this stage,” Arora said. She expects the USD/INR exchange rate to move towards 96, while the 10-year government bond yield could gradually rise to around 6.95%. Disclaimer: The views and recommendations made above are those of individual analysts or broking companies, and not of Mint. We advise investors to check with certified experts before making any investment decisions.