Welcome to Your Week in Asia. The dynamics of the Southeast Asian auto market have shifted dramatically in recent years as Chinese companies such as BYD, which will issue its earnings on Friday, eat away at Japanese carmakers' dominance in the region. A glimpse of how this competition will play out will be on display at Thailand's largest auto show. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen will meet Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese as the two sides look to seal a trade agreement. The European Union has been rushing to diversify its trade partners, although agriculture has been a sticking point in negotiations with Canberra. Get the best of our coverage of Asia and much more by following us on X, where our handle is @NikkeiAsia . We are also on Bluesky, with the handle @asia.nikkei.com . MONDAY Von der Leyen visits Australia Von der Leyen will meet Albanese in Canberra to discuss security and trade, marking her first visit to Australia in the role and the seventh meeting between the two leaders. The European Union and Australia are looking to finalize a trade agreement that has been under negotiation since 2018, though talks stalled in 2023. Earlier in March, Australian Trade Minister Don Farrell told media the two sides are "close" to reaching a deal, with only "a couple of outstanding issues" yet to be resolved. Data: Singapore inflation TUESDAY Boao Forum China holds the four-day Boao Forum in the southern island province of Hainan. Known as Asia's answer to Davos and marking its 25th anniversary this year, participants will discuss economic cooperation at a time of serious global tension and conflict. Singaporean Prime Minister Lawrence Wong is expected to be among the attendees. Earnings: Xiaomi Data: India purchasing managers index WEDNESDAY Bangkok International Motor Show The Bangkok International Motor Show 2026 will run through April 5, with major automakers from across Asia and Europe launching new models to attract buyers. A key theme this year is the fight between Chinese electric vehicle makers, which are expected to offer new cars at attractive prices, while Japanese and European manufacturers are still betting on hybrid models. Thai car production, sales and exports data is to be released on Tuesday. Sara Duterte impeachment committee hearing Lawmakers in the Philippines House of Representatives are set to conduct hearings for evidence and witnesses related to the two impeachment complaints against Vice President Sara Duterte over her alleged misappropriation of public funds and threats against high-ranking officials. The proceedings against Duterte could eventually lead to a formal plenary vote and a Senate trial. Earnings: Anta THURSDAY Sunway extraordinary general meeting One of Malaysia's largest developers, Sunway Group, is facing resistance over its 11 billion ringgit ($2.8 billion) takeover bid for IJM, ahead of a shareholder vote on Thursday, with IJM's board and independent adviser urging investors to reject the offer as "not fair and not reasonable." The adviser valued IJM at 5.84 to 6.48 ringgit per share, well above Sunway's 3.15 ringgit offer, citing a deep discount and stronger earnings outlook from its infrastructure and property pipeline. The outcome of the vote could determine whether one of Malaysia's biggest deals this year proceeds or stalls. Earnings: Xtep Data: Singapore manufacturing index FRIDAY BYD earnings China's largest electric vehicle maker, BYD, reports fourth quarter earnings for 2025, after the group suffered six months of sales declines since last September. The Tesla rival is expected to intensify its overseas expansion push to offset weakening domestic demand, with investors watching closely for potential design revamps and technological breakthroughs aimed at reviving its momentum. Earnings: Ping An Data: Philippines trade SUNDAY Prabowo starts Asia tour Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto is set to visit several Southeast and East Asian countries through early April. The trip will include stops in Japan, South Korea and Vietnam, and comes as geopolitical tensions in the Middle East disrupt global energy supplies and heighten concerns over national security.