Admissions and scholarships ITM Business School has announced the Case Analysis and Personal Interview (CAPI) round for admissions to its MBA iConnect 2026–28 programme across campuses. Participants can get same-day admission offers, skip the usual process and secure an MBA iConnect seat quickly. Details at https://tinyurl.com/3dce89h7 Whistling Woods International, in association with Tata Institute of Social Sciences , has announced the next round of entrance exams for the July 2026 academic cycle for various full-time degree, PG, and diploma programmes. For eligibility details and exam dates, visit www.whistlingwoods.co.in RV University, Bengaluru, has announced its various scholarship programmes such as merit scholarship, sports scholarship and others for 2026–27, open to students from all State and Central Boards across India. Students who excel in the CUET exam will get a scholarship of ₹50,000. Details at https://tinyurl.com/5w4m72eu NIIT University invites applications for its B.Tech. Artificial Intelligence and Data Science, B.Tech. Cyber Security, B.Tech. Robotics and Automation, B.Tech. Biotechnology, B.Tech. Computer Science and Engineering, B.Tech. Electronics and Communication Engineering, BBA Artificial Intelligence, BBA in Business Analytics and five-year Integrated Masters in Business Administration (iMBA) programmes. For more details, visit https://tinyurl.com/uxsesne6 Universal Ai University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology International Science and Technology Initiatives are hosting a four-day AI Summer Residency 2026 programme. Dates: May 14 to 17; June 4 to 7, and July 9 to 12 Eligibility: Students from Class 7 onwards who want to know more about Business and Management, Design, Music and Sound, Liberal Arts, Tech, Engineering courses. Deadline: May 30 https://tinyurl.com/43hbd3ax SP Jain School of Global Management invites applications for the October intake of its Master of Management Australian-accredited postgraduate programme delivered on its Sydney campus. Eligibility: A UG degree from a recognised university with least two units in Maths, Computer Science, Economics, Engineering, Science, or a quantitative discipline. Overall IELTS score of 6.5; TOEFL iBT overall score of 70, or PTE score of 60. More information at https://tinyurl.com/mtt3uanp Acharya Bangalore Business School, Bengaluru, invites applications for its MBA (Entrepreneurship) programme. Eligibility: Minimum 50% in graduation and a valid score in CAT, MAT, CMAT or KMAT. Deadline: July 31 More information at https://tinyurl.com/478r9stt The Department of Fashion Technology, Sona College of Technology, invites applications to its four-year B.T.ech programme. Eligibility: First division in Class 12 Physics, Chemistry and Maths stream. For details, visit https://www.sonatech.ac.in/ft/ The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) invites applications for a two-month Summer Internship Programme 2026 from May to July. Selected interns will receive a stipend of ₹20,000 a month and a certificate of completion. Eligibility: UG and PG students of Civil Engineering, Information Technology, Computer Science and Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Instrumentation Engineering, and Data Science/Artificial Intelligence, and related disciplines, BA LLB, B.A., B.Com and B.Sc. programmes, MBA HR, Finance, and Marketing, Mass Communication and Library Science Deadline: April 15 https://tinyurl.com/3d4bn82k English Teachers Excellence Thynk Unlimited launched the English Teachers Excellence for English language educators, a recognition programme for English language educators across five levels: Kindergarten, Primary, Middle School, High School and Higher Secondary. Eligibility: Teachers from schools (any board), and independent ESL trainers. Deadline: April 30 https://tinyurl.com/588423k2 ICAI campus placement The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) invites registrations for its 64th Campus Placement Programme for newly qualified chartered accountants. The programme will be conducted across Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai, Kolkata and Hyderabad in April. For more details, visit https://tinyurl.com/7kzpzkth Events SRMIST Chennai has appointed Uday Umesh Lalit as its Professor Emeritus. The Department of Mechatronics at the institute hosted the International Conference on Automation, Robotics and Mechatronics 2026 along with Cranfield University and Thai Nguyen University of Technology. KLH Aziz Nagar Campus hosted a four-day IEEE-GRSS Summer School 2026 on the theme Harnessing SAR and Machine Learning for Indian Agriculture. This was organised IEEE Student Branch KLH GRSS Chapter in collaboration with the IEEE GRSS Hyderabad Chapter, and supported by IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing Society (GRSS). Speakers included Dr. Paul Rosen from NASA–JPL, the U.S.; Dr. Kumar Vijay Mishra from the U.S. Army Research Laboratory, the U.S.; Prof. Alejandro C. Frery from Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand; Dr. R. Srinivas, Director-Outreach of NRSC–ISRO; Vijender B. Reddy from ISR), and Narayanarao B. from NIT Warangal. Shoolini University hosted the sixth edition of its LitFest which had over 50 speakers and close to 3,000 participants. Pankaj Khullar, former Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Himachal Pradesh, inaugurated the event. Rochester Institute of Technology concluded Tiger Pride 2026 on the theme Spies and Missions, bringing together students, counsellors, and partner schools associated with Tiger STRIPES, an experiential learning platform. SBI Foundation’s LEAP and NIIT Foundation trained the youth aged 18–25 years for finance careers, and placed 51 graduates in the BFSI sector. G. Srinivas Reddy, a fourth-year engineering student at Mohan Babu University , built a QR-Code based system to enhance traveller safety with verified vehicle/driver info and real-time trip tracking for quicker police response, which has been deployed by the Andhra Pradesh Police (NTR district). Ashoka Innovators for the Public and Connecting Dreams Foundation hosted the National Student Change Initiatives Festival 2026. Around 100 teams presented AI-driven solutions to real-world community challenges, including innovations from small towns and marginalised groups. VIT Bhopal University hosted the Third International Higher Education Fair 2026. Over 70 global institutions participated. Anna Rogovskaya, Deputy to the Business Ambassador of Russia to India, was the chief guest. Beep School of Design, Pune, hosted its first graduation ceremony for 210 students from its Advanced Certification in UI/UX Design programme. Aahwahan Foundation and Acuiti Labs launched Project Udaan, distributing bicycles and wellness kits to support girls’ education at Karnataka Public School, a government school in Bengaluru. Education financing platform Kuhoo launched a report on how tier-2 and tier-3 cities are driving student loan applications, highlighting rising higher-education aspirations in smaller towns. A team led by researchers from Nagaland University — in collaboration with Sathyabama Institute of Science and Technology; CSIR-North East Institute of Science and Technology; Tezpur University; Bharathiar University; University of Science and Technology Meghalaya, and Galgotias University — has developed a biodegradable biopolymer as an eco-friendly alternative to plastics. The findings were published in the Journal of Polymer Research JAIN Deemed-to-be University hosted FUTUREFORGE 2026, a tech conclave on the theme Designing Tomorrow’s Machines, Minds and Microchips . Speakers gave students insights into transformative technologies shaping future industries. As part of the Erasmus+ AIDEdu Project, Jaipuria Institute of Management, Lucknow, hosted an international delegation comprising representatives from global institutions. The project aims to create a Centre of Excellence for accessible, inclusive, and digital management education in India and Nepal. A research team from IIT Gandhinagar has developed an advanced injectable hydrogel technology that can support doctors during minimally invasive procedures. Harshil Dave , a second-year Ph.D. scholar in the Department of Biological Sciences and Engineering and lead researcher, was awarded the Vikram Sarabhai Young Scientist Award 2026. GITAM Deemed-to-be University will award 786 UG students scholarships up to ₹30 crore, including up to 100% tuition, food, and accommodation coverage, through its Pathway Scholarship Programme. NIT Rourkela has secured a patent for an intelligent surveillance technology — Unauthorised Person Detection using Thermal Imaging and Gait Recognition for Intra-Building Security — developed by Prof. Samit Ari, Professor, Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, along with research scholar Mohammad Iman Junaid, and M. Tech graduates Narayan Prasad Sharma and Irshad Ali. A TeamLease Edtech report found that, despite NEP 2020’s focus on employability, only 16.67% of Indian higher education institutions achieve over 75% placements within six months of graduation. IIIT Delhi hosted the Viksit Bharat Yuva Connect Programme 2026 and engaged students and young changemakers on leadership and nation-building. Team VITAKSH from VIT Bhopal launched and operated a high-altitude balloon satellite mission, conceptualised, designed, and developed by students. JoVE launched an Information Literacy series with 3D animated videos to teach students and researchers essential skills for responsible, evidence-based scientific research. IIIT Hyderabad and NITI Aayog held a roundtable and workshop on Quantum Technologies for Life Sciences, exploring quantum computing applications in healthcare, biology, and drug discovery. Around 121 students of the New Delhi Institute of Management have got job offers across 70 companies. Notable recruiters across sectors include Grant Thornton, Wipro, Paytm, Tech Mahindra, Tata Consultancy Services, Swiggy, Realme, Zomato, Magicpin, BT Group, Muthoot Finance, and Bajaj Capital, among others. ITM Vocational University has registered two innovative designs by its students and faculty members with the Patent Office, Government of India. Metal Structural Solar Grass Cutter was designed by Rahul Chaurasiya, Nirav Thakar, Pankaj Raval, Sunil Rabari, Patel Ketul Nayan, Vidit Pratap Singh Chauhan, Dabgar Tirth Ashish, and Parmar Ashish Tirth. The 3D-Printer Assembly was designed by Mayank Dev Singh, Mayur Chavda, Apexa Purohit, Anil M. Bisen, Jai Bahadur Balmrshi, Dhrumil Shah, Naitik Patel, Deval Patel, Nirav Thakar, Jogesh Chaudhry, and Prashant Sharma. Researchers from IIT Guwahati have developed energy-efficient bricks to keep buildings naturally cool. A paper co-authored by Prof. Pankaj Kalita, Associate Professor; Pushpendra Singh, Post-Doctoral Fellow; and Bitupan Das and Urbashi Bordoloi from the School of Energy Science and Engineering, was published in the Journal of Energy Storage. KP Human Development Foundation has launched the Urja Noor Scholarship programme, in collaboration with PP Savani University . The programme aims to support underprivileged students pursuing education in renewable energy and related fields. DY Patil International School Worli hosted a session on Shaping the Future of Hybrid Learning , in collaboration with International Baccalaureate to explore how schools could prepare students to think independently in a rapidly evolving world. Fatak Pay has initiated a Seva Sahyog Foundation Shiksha Vikas initiative to support rural education by providing essential books and study material to nearly 500 students studying in Zilla Parishad schools across Shahapur. Around 100 Class 10 students received sets of textbooks covering all subjects and reference guides to support their exam prep. Awards Dayanand Sagar Business Academy was the winner of Regalia 2026, the national inter-college fest hosted by Acharya Bangalore Business School, Bengaluru. Shiv Nadar University, Delhi-NCR and Sony India concluded the third edition of the photography competition, Photothon 2026. The winners were Anoop Antony, Ahmad Zaman, Lakshay Gupta, Sanskriti Tiwari, Bhanuteja Padamat, Amaresh Kumar, Meenakshi Tiwari, Yukta, Ashish Kumar Maurya, and Siddharth Sahu. The QS World University Rankings by Subject 2026 was released recently. O.P. Jindal Global University was ranked 35 globally for Law and Legal Studies, 90 globally for Politics and International Studies, and between 151 and 200 globally for Management Studies. BITS Pilani’s Pharmacy and Pharmacology programme was ranked 45 globally, Electrical and Electronic Engineering and Mechanical Engineering were ranked between 151-200 globally and Chemical Engineering was ranked in the 201-250 band globally. Istituto Marangoni ranked #45 worldwide in the Art and Design category. Marwadi University , Rajkot, was in the 751-850 band for Computer Science and Information Systems. Galgotias University was placed in the 601–650 band globally for Computer Science. The IEEE Computer Society Student Chapter at Galgotias University won the Best Computer Society Chapter in India Award under the leadership of Gaurang Pant , a third-year B.Tech student, at the All-India Computer Society Student and Young Professionals Congress 2025. Pant also won the Richard E. Merwin Student Scholarship offered by the IEEE Computer Society. Pimpri Chinchwad College of Engineering, Pune, emerged winners in the regional finals of the Bharat Nav-Nirmaan Challenge held at NICMAR University, Pune. Datta Meghe College of Engineering, Mumbai , was second and Vishwakarma College of Engineering, Ahmedabad, was third. Partnerships Crisil Limited and the Wadhwani School of AI and Intelligent Systems signed an MoU with IIT Kanpur to collaborate in AI and intelligent systems and foster industry-relevant engagements and competence. Shri KhushalDas University, Hanumangarh , partnered with the National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology , New Delhi, to open a direct pathway for students in Rajasthan to access nationally recognised programmes in AI, Cyber Security, Data Science, Internet of Things, Computer Science, Engineering and Semiconductor Technologies, without leaving their region. UPES Dehradun has partnered with OpenAI to become an AI-first university by deploying ChatGPT Edu to enhance teaching, learning, research, and student experience. IMS Design and Innovation Academy has signed an MoU with Medusa Fashion House to launch an industry-integrated three-month diploma programme that aims to bridge the gap between academic learning and real-world industry experience by enabling participants to conceptualise, develop, and present their own fashion collections on an international runway platform. IMS Noida signed an MoU with the Indo-Icelandic Business Association to facilitate knowledge exchange, industry interaction, and international exposure and enable initiatives such as expert sessions, workshops, joint programmes and engagement with global business networks to help students understand international markets and emerging global trends.