Trying to make sense of Amazon 's Echo Show range? I can guarantee you're not alone. Amazon's selection of smart home displays is a confusing mess of numbers, dates, and generations, and figuring out which is which and then which of those you actually need is a major challenge. To help you out, I've combed through the product pages and worked out the key differences you need to know, as well as collating the relevant specs into a handy reference table. Before I get started with that, you should know that now's an especially good time to be shopping for a new Echo Show device. In the US, Amazon's Big Spring Sale is imminent, and even though it doesn't officially begin until March 25, among the early deals are price drops across the Echo Show range. The UK's own sale is over, but there are some lingering discounts still available to buy, too. I've rounded up the best offers below. But now, let's look at the differences between the Amazon Echo Show devices. Amazon Echo Show guide There are some key differences between the models in the Amazon Echo Show range. The first thing to know is that the number at the end of the name does not refer to the generation, but the screen size. The Echo Show 21 has a 21-inch screen, the Show 11 has an 11-inch screen, and so on. Some of the sizes aren't exact — the Show 5's screen is actually 5.5 inches, and the Show 8's in 8.7 inches — but it's a good rough indication. The Show 11 and 21 are new options, but the others in the range are on their second generation or later. I've included the newest generation and its release date in my reference table, so you can make sure you end up with the version you're expecting. As you move up the range in screen size, more capabilities are added, specs become more advanced, and the price increases. The cheap-and-cheerful Echo Show 5 has a basic screen, camera, and speaker setup, and a compact build that's perfect for small tabletops. The Show 8 and Show 11 are also tabletop models, but have more advanced specs — Amazon positions them as 'the perfect kitchen assistant'. Finally, the Show 15 and Show 21 are wall-mountable and come with the most advanced specs. Most notably, the entertainment options are significantly improved, with Fire TV built in and a full selection of video apps available. Echo Show smart display deals — US Echo Show smart display deals — UK