A 50 xDrive i3 launch model comes with 469hp Company says it is capable of 900km (560 miles) of WLTP range The internet has been divided on the way it looks We knew that it was coming, but BMW has still managed to cause quite a stir by unveiling its Neue Klasse i3 today — arguably the first all-electric 3 Series and likely the most important BMW in recent history. The company said it was “the very essence” of the BMW brand and, as such, has seen fit to endow the sharp four-door saloon with a whopping 108kWh nickel-manganese-cobalt (NMC) battery that is capable of delivering just shy of 560 miles. Launching with the 50 xDrive variant, a twin motor powertrain develops a combined system output of 469hp and 645Nm of torque for rapid acceleration and BMW’s renowned performance credentials. Article continues below BMW also says its upcoming i3 offers “class-leading driving dynamics”, thanks to a new “superbrain” digital architecture and the Heart of Joy driving dynamics system that was debuted on the iX3 electric SUV. These high-performance processors can crunch information and sensor data within milliseconds, meaning acceleration, braking and steering are sharper than any electric vehicle the company has produced to date. Early drives of the iX3 already attest to how well the system operates and feels when behind the wheel. What’s more, the 800V electrical architecture underpinning both Neue Klasse vehicles is capable of adding up to 250 miles of range in around 10 minutes from a 400kW charger. Sign up for breaking news, reviews, opinion, top tech deals, and more. Inside, the new i3 takes a similar approach to the iX3, complete with the latest iDrive system and the massive Panoramic Vision strip that runs the entire width of the windscreen and projects customizable widgets onto a black strip. There’s also an optional head-up display and the standard 17.9-inch central touchscreen display that is angled towards the driver. Plus, BMW is pushing hard into AI voice assistants, thanks in part to its collaboration with Amazon and subsequent integration of Alexa Plus inside its vehicles. Analysis: Styling that divides (Image credit: BMW) To these eyes at least, BMW has hit the bullseye when it comes to the exterior styling of the upcoming i3. It manages to look modern and fresh, while providing enough subtle nods back to some of the most handsome 3 Series models in its history. It is low and wide, with short overhands and aggressively flared wheel arches, while the kidney grille at the front has been reduced from its previous, ungainly proportions to something altogether more elegant. But not everybody likes it. There’s a general consensus among Instagram and Reddit users that it looks “Chinese” and that the rear end isn’t particularly beautiful. But on the other hand, one Reddit user said that it is the “first genuinely new design language since Flame Surfacing from Chris Bangle” — one of the most controversial BMW designers of recent times. One subject that hasn’t been heavily criticized is the claimed 560-mile range, which puts BMW firmly out ahead in terms smashing range anxiety for potential customers. In addition to this, the company has also confirmed that there will be an estate or wagon version of the i3 coming, as well as a high performance M3 based on the same platform that BMW has already stated will “set new standard” for electric performance. Follow TechRadar on Google News and add us as a preferred source to get our expert news, reviews, and opinion in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button! And of course, you can also follow TechRadar on YouTube and TikTok for news, reviews, unboxings in video form, and get regular updates from us on WhatsApp too.