Private equity firms Bain Capital and Apollo Global Management are among several firms holding discussions about the potential purchase of Continental AG 's industrial unit, ContiTech. The process is understood to be ongoing and plans are subject to change. Meanwhile, other private equity firms such as Advent, CVC Capital Partners have joined together to make an offer for the business. Platinum Equity, KPS Capital Partners and Clearlake Capital are also holding discussions in the bidding process. In January, the company appointed Christian Kotz CEO and chairman of the board. Nikolai Setzer stepped down from his role after more than 16 years as a board member and five years as CEO. This step comes as planned on the back of the significant progress made with Continental's realignment and transformation into a pure-play tire company, Continental wrote. The company stated that they expect higher earnings in 2026, despite a continued volatile environment driven by strong business growth in premium tires, an anticipated decline in prices of raw materials and a projected recovery in industrial markets in the second half of the year. The company also expects to see positive effects from the measures taken to approve earnings, particularly in ContiTech. Continental successfully spun off its automotive group sector, which began trading independently as AUMOVIO in September 2025. Many private equity firms are redirecting capital towards oil producers, equipment manufacturers, and fast-food chains, the Wall Street Journal reported last month. Participants in the market have coined the term "AI immunity trade" or "HALO," short for "heavy assets, low obsolescence." Investors are looking for areas that may not be as affected for software or artificial intelligence automation and are pivoting towards investments in those areas, an MSN article noted. This comes amid a sector sell off or "SaaS Apocalypse," as software-as-a-service (SaaS) and data provider stocks see sharp declines in the past several weeks amid market concerns that AI will erode the relevance of the sector . Image: Shutterstock