This shows that traders are rapidly shifting from bullish to short positions in gold stocks. Miners Amplify Pain, Opportunity The gold miners are more sensitive to gold prices. This means that they are more affected by a fall in gold prices. When gold fell by nearly 10% last week, gold miners fell by more. This has created a situation that makes inverse gold miner ETFs more appealing to traders. This has turned DUST and JDST into go-to tools for traders who are seeking to profit from the fall. Both funds rose 24% and 25% respectively in the past five days. A major catalyst for this decline can be attributed to a sharp change in interest rate expectations. While markets had previously anticipated multiple interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve, they are now expecting potential rate increases. This has caused yields to rise and the dollar to strengthen further, which is a double whammy against gold as an asset that does not pay interest. The decline in gold can also be attributed to a sharp unwinding in a “crowded trade.” Gold and mining stocks had appreciated almost 50% over the last year and subsequently attracted large inflows. However, as sentiment changes, traders are now exiting in large numbers, causing further losses in mining stocks and further gains in inverse ETFs. Other than prices and volumes, markets are also concerned about some deeper issues. The Middle East conflict has raised some concerns, which have led to speculation about some oil-dependent countries facing revenue issues, which in turn has raised the prospect, however unconfirmed, of selling assets, including gold. Whether this actually happens or not, the fact is that this is adding to the selling pressure on gold. A Tactical Trade, Not A Long-Term Bet While the move in DUST and JDST signals growing bearish sentiment, leveraged ETFs like DUST and JDST are not intended for long-term bets. For now, while gold is losing traction, traders are making the most on the other side of the trade. Photo: Phawat on Shutterstock.com Market News and Data brought to you by Benzinga APIs © 2026 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. To add Benzinga News as your preferred source on Google, click here .