As AI rewrites every aspect of software delivery, platform engineering is making the internal developer portal a foundational instrument for the agentic age. The same infrastructure problems that once forced engineers to juggle spreadsheets — cognitive load, discovery friction and inconsistent standards — now risk being amplified by AI agents that can act on behalf of entire engineering organizations, according to Tyson Singer (pictured, left), senior vice president and head of technology and platforms at Spotify AB. Enter Backstage , the Spotify-born portal that became a widely adopted system for organizing the services and standards modern engineering teams rely on. “We started [Backstage] with the idea to solve two problems in the engineering ecosystem — chaos in the engineering system and cognitive load,” Singer said. “Both of those are … amplified in the new AI age, where the developer really does have to understand more context, because their agents can help them work on more things … and you’ve got this agentic workforce that really needs to know what the standards and the guidelines are for your development ecosystem.” Singer and Chris Aniszczyk (right), chief technology officer of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation, spoke with theCUBE’s Rebecca Knight and Rob Strechay at KubeCon + CloudNativeCon EU 2026 , during an exclusive broadcast on theCUBE, SiliconANGLE Media’s livestreaming studio. They discussed the release of the Backstage documentary “Spreadsheet to Standard,” the role of internal developer portals and Spotify’s platform engineering approach to agentic fleet management. (* Disclosure below.) Platform engineering and the agentic workforce The conversation coincided with the premiere of a new CNCF documentary tracing Backstage’s journey from an internal Spotify spreadsheet-replacement to one of the most widely adopted platform engineering tools in the world — now used by more than 3,000 companies, according to Aniszczyk. The project consistently ranks in the top five for velocity within the CNCF ecosystem and in the top 100 across all open source projects globally, he added. “IDPs and Backstage and the rise of agentic systems [are] only going to increase in importance because agents need to feed off generally structured information,” Aniszczyk said. “An IDP like Backstage structures services, who owns what — [it] provides the information that agents need to be actually super effective. Every organization is going to have to have this, in my opinion, to be effective in a new world.” At Spotify, the practical payoff is already measurable. The company’s AI Knowledge Assistant — exposed to the agentic ecosystem through a model context protocol service — has reduced developer “goalie workload” by about 47% by drawing on the structured knowledge Backstage captures across all engineering domains, Singer noted. Spotify has also introduced Honk, its internal fleet management solution, to drive large-scale automated code changes safely and shift the burden of code review back to the team initiating the change rather than each individual repository owner, he added. “What agents do is they amplify what’s good in your ecosystem and they amplify what’s bad,” Singer said. “If you have things that help structure your ecosystem, then you’re amplifying the goodness as opposed to amplifying the chaos and the messiness and the complexity.” Here’s the complete video interview, part of SiliconANGLE’s and theCUBE’s coverage of KubeCon + CloudNativeCon EU 2026 : VIDEO (* Disclosure: The Cloud Native Computing Foundation sponsored this segment of theCUBE. Neither the CNCF nor other sponsors have editorial control over content on theCUBE or SiliconANGLE.) Photo: SiliconANGLE A message from John Furrier, co-founder of SiliconANGLE: Support our mission to keep content open and free by engaging with theCUBE community. Join theCUBE’s Alumni Trust Network , where technology leaders connect, share intelligence and create opportunities. 15M+ viewers of theCUBE videos , powering conversations across AI, cloud, cybersecurity and more 11.4k+ theCUBE alumni — Connect with more than 11,400 tech and business leaders shaping the future through a unique trusted-based network. About SiliconANGLE Media SiliconANGLE Media is a recognized leader in digital media innovation, uniting breakthrough technology, strategic insights and real-time audience engagement. As the parent company of SiliconANGLE , theCUBE Network , theCUBE Research , CUBE365 , theCUBE AI and theCUBE SuperStudios — with flagship locations in Silicon Valley and the New York Stock Exchange — SiliconANGLE Media operates at the intersection of media, technology and AI. Founded by tech visionaries John Furrier and Dave Vellante, SiliconANGLE Media has built a dynamic ecosystem of industry-leading digital media brands that reach 15+ million elite tech professionals. Our new proprietary theCUBE AI Video Cloud is breaking ground in audience interaction, leveraging theCUBEai.com neural network to help technology companies make data-driven decisions and stay at the forefront of industry conversations.