US President Donald Trump disembarks from Air Force One upon arrival at Dover Air Force Base in Dover, Delaware, March 7, 2026 Saul Loeb | Afp | Getty Images Hello, this is Hui Jie writing to you from Singapore. Welcome to another edition of CNBC's Daily Open. U.S. President Donald Trump is apparently finding it difficult to get out of the Iran conflict, as indicated by his sharpening rhetoric and multiple threats against Tehran. In fact, the possibility of the U.S. getting involved in another quagmire is becoming only too real, as U.S. Marines arrive in the region amid reports that Washington is mulling a ground operation. What you need to know today Chinese strategist and general Sun Tzu said in his magnum opus "The Art of War" that "There is no instance of a country having benefited from prolonged warfare." U.S. President Donald Trump, who has more experience with "The Art of the Deal," appears to be struggling to implement the Chinese strategist's advice. On Monday night stateside, Trump threatened to destroy Iran's oil wells, its export hub of Kharg Island, and power plants if a peace deal is not reached "shortly." That sent oil prices climbing further, with U.S. West Texas Intermediate futures settling above $100 a barrel for the first time since 2022, causing U.S. markets to drop and the S&P 500 inching closer to correction territory. Markets fell even as Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell said that he sees inflation expectations as grounded despite rising energy prices, and the central bank doesn't need to respond with higher interest rates. The war's impact, however, is spreading beyond oil. Aluminum prices hit a four‑year high as Iranian strikes on Middle Eastern producers stoke fears of supply shortages. Raising ethical concerns, the Financial Times reported that a broker for U.S. Defense Secetary Pete Hegseth attempted to make a large investment in major defense companies in the lead up to the Iran war. The Pentagon has called the report "false and fabricated." And finally... Quantum technology firms race to market as the industry sees 'inflection point' Quantum technology firms are defying turbulent markets to go public this year, as the industry seeks to raise capital off recent scientific breakthroughs and push the experimental tech towards commercialization. One such firm, Xanadu Quantum , which builds quantum computing hardware and software, began trading on the Nasdaq and Toronto Stock Exchange on Friday, rallying 15% in the U.S. after a rocky start in public markets. Xanadu's listing came a week after Singapore-based quantum software company Horizon Quantum began trading following its merger with blank-check company dMY Squared Technology Group. — Dylan Butts, Matthew Chin