Semiconductor stocks have been a pocket of strength within the technology sector in Q1, with the VanEck Semiconductor ETF (SMH) outperforming the S & P 500 Index by around 7 percentage points year to date. However, our work suggests semiconductor stocks are vulnerable to a period of downside leadership in the short term and potentially the long term. SMH's secular uptrend shows signs of long-term upside exhaustion per Tom DeMark's TD Combo model, supporting a nine-month corrective phase. The past two "sell" signals from this model were timely indications of cyclical corrections in late 2021 and mid-2024. Long-term upside momentum waned in March, as shown by a downtick in the monthly MACD histogram. This is the first downtick since the April 2025 low and serves as an indication that the cyclical uptrend in SMH is losing steam. The ratio of SMH to the SPX shows a significant loss of intermediate-term momentum, suggesting semiconductor stocks will be out of favor over the next several weeks. The weekly MACD on the ratio has its first downturn since Q1 of last year, which preceded a major correction for semiconductor stocks and the broader market. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing is a global bellwether and the second-largest holding in SMH at nearly 12% of the ETF. The stock has a fresh breakdown below the daily cloud model in a bearish intermediate-term shift. Short-term downside risk is framed by support from a 38.2% Fibonacci retracement near $293 and the rising 200-day MA. Secondary support is below $232. Like SMH, TSM shows deterioration in our long-term indicators as a headwind for the rest of the year. The outlook for TSM relative to the SPX mirrors SMH's relative setup, suggesting the stock will be a source of downside leadership during the corrective phase for equities. Semiconductor stocks tend to lead in both uptrends and downtrends, so we view the loss of relative strength for SMH and its constituents as a bearish development for the major indices. Investors should be wary given the bearish technical catalysts in former leaders like TSM and signs of long-term upside exhaustion across the sector. —Katie Stockton with Will Tamplin Access research from Fairlead Strategies for free here . DISCLOSURES: None. All opinions expressed by the CNBC Pro contributors are solely their opinions and do not reflect the opinions of CNBC, or its parent company or affiliates, and may have been previously disseminated by them on television, radio, internet or another medium. THIS CONTENT IS PROVIDED FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY AND DOES NOT CONSTITUTE FINANCIAL, INVESTMENT, TAX OR LEGAL ADVICE OR A RECOMMENDATION TO BUY ANY SECURITY OR OTHER FINANCIAL ASSET. THE CONTENT IS GENERAL IN NATURE AND DOES NOT REFLECT ANY INDIVIDUAL'S UNIQUE PERSONAL CIRCUMSTANCES. THE ABOVE CONTENT MIGHT NOT BE SUITABLE FOR YOUR PARTICULAR CIRCUMSTANCES. BEFORE MAKING ANY FINANCIAL DECISIONS, YOU SHOULD STRONGLY CONSIDER SEEKING ADVICE FROM YOUR OWN FINANCIAL OR INVESTMENT ADVISOR. Click here for the full disclaimer. Fairlead Strategies Disclaimer: This communication has been prepared by Fairlead Strategies LLC ("Fairlead Strategies") for informational purposes only. This material is for illustration and discussion purposes and not intended to be, nor construed as, financial, legal, tax or investment advice. You should consult appropriate advisors concerning such matters. This material presents information through the date indicated, reflecting the author's current expectations, and is subject to revision by the author, though the author is under no obligation to do so. This material may contain commentary on broad-based indices, market conditions, different types of securities, and cryptocurrencies, using the discipline of technical analysis, which evaluates the demand and supply based on market pricing. The views expressed herein are solely those of the author. This material should not be construed as a recommendation, or advice or an offer or solicitation with respect to the purchase or sale of any investment. The information is not intended to provide a basis on which you could make an investment decision on any particular security or its issuer. This document is intended for CNBC Pro subscribers only and is not for distribution to the general public. Certain information has been provided by and/or is based on third party sources and, although such information is believed to be reliable, no representation is made with respect to the accuracy, completeness, or timeliness of such information. This information may be subject to change without notice. Fairlead Strategies undertakes no obligation to maintain or update this material based on subsequent information and events or to provide you with any additional or supplemental information or any update to or correction of the information contained herein. Fairlead Strategies, its officers, employees, affiliates and partners shall not be liable to any person in any way whatsoever for any losses, costs, or claims for your reliance on this material. Nothing herein is, or shall be relied on as, a promise or representation as to future performance. PAST PERFORMANCE IS NOT INDICATIVE OF FUTURE RESULTS. Opinions expressed in this material may differ or be contrary to opinions expressed, or actions taken, by Fairlead Strategies or its affiliates, or their respective officers, directors, or employees. In addition, any opinions and assumptions expressed herein are made as of the date of this communication and are subject to change and/or withdrawal without notice. Fairlead Strategies or its affiliates may have positions in financial instruments mentioned, may have acquired such positions at prices no longer available, and may have interests different from or adverse to your interests or inconsistent with the advice herein. Any investments made are made under the same terms as nonaffiliated investors and do not constitute a controlling interest. No liability is accepted by Fairlead Strategies, its officers, employees, affiliates, or partners for any losses that may arise from any use of the information contained herein. Any financial instruments mentioned herein are speculative in nature and may involve risk to principal and interest. Any prices or levels shown are either historical or purely indicative. This material does not take into account the particular investment objectives or financial circumstances, objectives or needs of any specific investor, and are not intended as recommendations of particular securities, investment products, or other financial products or strategies to particular clients. Securities, investment products, other financial products or strategies discussed herein may not be suitable for all investors. The recipient of this information must make its own independent decisions regarding any securities, investment products or other financial products mentioned herein. The material should not be provided to any person in a jurisdiction where its provision or use would be contrary to local laws, rules, or regulations. This material is not to be reproduced or redistributed absent the written consent of Fairlead Strategies.