My top 10 things to watch Monday, March 30 1. The S & P 500 is headed for a higher open as President Donald Trump signals progress in U.S.-Iran war talks. Rarity since the conflict began. Stocks are up, and oil is up. Usually, higher oil prices drag down stocks. The problem, as I outlined in my Sunday column for Investing Club members, is that the market doesn't know how Trump wants the war to end. 2. After a fifth straight weekly loss , the S & P 500 lost nearly 6% in March as of Friday's close. Unlike the Dow and Nasdaq , the S & P 500 has so narrowly avoided sliding into correction territory. In addition to developments in the Mideast, the government releases its monthly jobs report on Friday despite the market being closed for the Good Friday holiday. 3. Morgan Stanley said it's time to buy Meta Platforms . Sentiment has troughed. I called Meta a buy last week during the Club's March Monthly Meeting. I am much less worried about the liabilities from litigation over social media addiction. Meta lost two court cases last week, and the stock was hammered. Shares are modestly higher this morning. 4. Wolfe Research gets it, saying Anthropic's new model needs Club name CrowdStrike to protect AI agents. The analysts say Mythos will lead to bigger annual recurring revenue for cybersecurity companies. That's why CrowdStrike must be bought. I have been saying all along that cyber stocks will benefit from AI, not be replaced by it. 5. Bernstein analysts said Oracle is a better story than they thought, with better upside potential. They argued both Oracle's cloud and database businesses will be AI winners. Their price target of $319 is more than double Friday's closing price of nearly $140. Maybe Oracle will need far less cash than previously thought? 6. Goldman Sachs initiated coverage of once-loved Qualcomm with a neutral rating. The analysts put on a $135 price target, about 6% upside to Friday's close. Goldman likes Qualcomm's revenue diversification effort but worries about lost smartphone business from the likes of Apple and others. 7. Nike reports earnings Tuesday evening. Goldman Sachs sees mixed signals but calls the Club stock a buy. The analysts laid out their case exactly the way we did during Friday's meeting. I still believe in CEO Elliott Hill's ability to turn around the iconic brand, but want to see more progress. 8. Deutsche Bank upgraded energy drink maker Celsius to buy from hold. The analysts did lower their price target to $44 from $56, recognizing this year's 25% decline in the stock. They called it oversold. Celsius has been getting hit recently after Club name Costco launched an energy drink for less. 9. Colgate-Palmolive has always been everyone's packaged goods favorite. Well-run company. Deutsche Bank upgraded the stock to a buy from hold and raises its price target to $98 from $90. The analysts call the recent sell-off a chance to buy. In consumer staples, we own Procter & Gamble . 10. Wells Fargo called American Express stock a buy on the weakness. The analysts see a revenue beat when the credit card giant reports earnings next month, citing momentum in Platinum. White-collar job risk because of AI? Wells Fargo says the fears are way overdone. In credit cards, we own Capital One . It's that time of year again when my Charitable Trust makes its annual donation to charity. This year, we donated $298,017, bringing the Trust's total contributions since inception to $4.5 million. Members will notice on the Trust portfolio page a reduction in our cash position to reflect the donation. I'm happy that I get to teach people how to invest and make money for charity. Sign up for my Top 10 Morning Thoughts on the Market email newsletter for free (See here for a full list of the stocks at Jim Cramer's Charitable Trust.) As a subscriber to the CNBC Investing Club with Jim Cramer, you will receive a trade alert before Jim makes a trade. Jim waits 45 minutes after sending a trade alert before buying or selling a stock in his charitable trust's portfolio. If Jim has talked about a stock on CNBC TV, he waits 72 hours after issuing the trade alert before executing the trade. THE ABOVE INVESTING CLUB INFORMATION IS SUBJECT TO OUR TERMS AND CONDITIONS AND PRIVACY POLICY , TOGETHER WITH OUR DISCLAIMER . NO FIDUCIARY OBLIGATION OR DUTY EXISTS, OR IS CREATED, BY VIRTUE OF YOUR RECEIPT OF ANY INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH THE INVESTING CLUB. NO SPECIFIC OUTCOME OR PROFIT IS GUARANTEED.