Meta is pulling the plug on one of Instagram’s most secure messaging feature, and the company has a good reason for you to accept it. End-to-end encryption (E2EE) in DMs is going away from the popular photos and videos sharing platform after May 8, 2026, i.e., in less than two months. For those catching up, E2EE is a feature that encrypts messages so that only the sender and the receiver can see them. No platform, no advertiser, and no government agency gets to peek inside; just the two people messaging each other. Unsplash The feature everybody needed, but nobody used? The feature is widely considered as the most secure form of digital communication that is available to the general public. However, here’s the catch. Critics have long argued that E2EE creates a digital blind spot which isn’t accessible by the tech firms or the police, even when they’re the front for crimes. A Meta spokesperson said that “very few people were opting in,” for the feature in the first place, which is why the platform has decided to remove it. Further, anyone who wants encrypted chats can switch to WhatsApp . To be real, Meta never made E2EE the default standard on Instagram. It was available as an optional feature in some regions. To activate it, users had to tap on the recipient’s name at the top, select Privacy & safety, and tap on Use end-to-end encryption. Clearly, not a lot of users would appreciate going through a three-step process to enable the feature. Unsplash Privacy vs. safety: The E2EE pros and cons debate The debate has been playing out loudly in a New Mexico child safety trial, where internal Meta documents have revealed executives debating the trade-offs between privacy (encryption) and safety. Even Mark Zuckerberg has acknowledged that safety concerns were among the primary reasons encryption took so long to reach Messenger. While Instagram is removing the feature it already had, TikTok has refused to add E2EE entirely, specifically citing the risk it poses to safety teams and the law enforcement bodies, who wouldn’t be able to access the messages. I remember the backlash that WhatsApp had to face back in 2021 when it decided to share users’ conversations with business accounts to advertisers, but what’s happening with TikTok now is a rare event. Critics are actually appreciating the company for not introducing E2EE conversations.