Stock Market Crash LIVE: The Indian stock market opened sharply lower on Thursday, March 19, following steep losses in global markets amid worries over surging crude oil prices, and after US Federal Reserve policy and . The BSE Sensex crashed 1,953.21 points, or 2.55%, to open at 74,750.92, while the NSE Nifty 50 opened 580.05 points, or 2.44%, lower at 23,197.75. HDFC Bank share price slipped 8% at the open. All the sectoral indices were trading in the red, with Nifty Private Bank, Nifty Auto, Nifty IT, Nifty FMCG and Nifty PSU Bank falling the most. Why stock market is falling today? The Indian stock market crashed today after rising for three consecutive days. The key factors why stock market is falling today include the surging crude oil prices and the hawkish US Federal Reserve commentary. Here are key reasons why Indian stock market fell today: - Inflation worries by US Fed: The US Federal Reserve kept interest rate unchanged and warned that surging energy prices could stoke inflation. - Soaring Oil Prices: The escalating US-Iran war and the attacks on energy infrastructure in the Gulf region sent crude oil prices above $100 per barrel. Brent crude oil price surged 3.71% to $111.36 a barrel, while the US West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures rallied 2.97% to $99.18. - Selloff in HDFC Bank: Index heavyweight, HDFC Bank shares crashed over 8% after the bank announced that its part-time Chairman and independent director Atanu Chakraborty has resigned. HDFC Bank also appointed former HDFC Ltd’s CEO Keki Mistry as interim part-time chairman with approval from RBI. - Global Markets Crash: Weak global market sentiment also dampened the mood in the domestic equity markets. Asian markets traded lower, while the US stock market slumped overnight, with the S&P posting its lowest close in nearly four months. - FII Selling: Sustained selling by foreign investors also weighed on Indian equities. FIIs sold Indian shares worth ₹ 2,714 crore on Wednesday, their 14th consecutive session of net selling. Stay tuned to this segment for the latest updates on the Indian stock market today.