Asian markets today : Asian equities declined in early trade as rising oil prices, triggered by attacks on key energy infrastructure in the Middle East, heightened investor concerns that an escalating conflict could fuel inflationary pressures. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 1.7%, snapping a three-day winning streak as investors reduced risk exposure. Japan’s Nikkei 225 dropped 2.58%, leading regional losses, while the broader Topix declined 2.03%. South Korea's Kospi index slipped 2.54% after being the top performer in the previous session, while the small-cap Kosdaq fell a relatively modest 1.69%. Meanwhile, Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 was down 1.56%. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index declined 1.62%, while mainland China’s CSI 300 Index slipped 0.89%. “Global cues remain decisively negative, with widespread selling pressure evident across major markets. Asian equities have reacted sharply, as the Nikkei declined 2.68% and the KOSPI fell 2.87%, mirroring overnight weakness on Wall Street. U.S. markets closed lower, with the Dow Jones dropping 1.63% and the Nasdaq declining 1.46%. European indices also closed lower, with the FTSE 100 and DAX slipping around 1%, underscoring a broad-based risk-off sentiment across developed markets,” said Ponmudi R, CEO of Enrich Money. Why Asian stock markets are falling? Asian markets declined on Thursday, following losses on Wall Street where the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell to a fresh closing low for the year. The Federal Reserve kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 3.5%–3.75%, while Chair Jerome Powell tempered expectations of rate cuts, noting that inflation had not eased as much as anticipated. Meanwhile, the producer price index — a measure of wholesale inflation — rose 0.7% in February, significantly higher than the 0.3% increase forecast by economists surveyed by Dow Jones. Despite this, the central bank’s “dot plot” continues to indicate one rate cut in 2026 and another in 2027, although the exact timing remains uncertain. Ongoing tensions related to the Iran conflict have kept energy concerns elevated, with Brent crude futures climbing 3.83% to settle at $107.38 per barrel. US crude prices also remained firm, with West Texas Intermediate futures ending slightly higher at $96.32 per barrel. During the session, Brent crude extended its rally to approach $110 per barrel after reports from an Iranian news agency indicated that oil facilities in South Pars and Asaluyeh had been targeted in attacks. Investors in Asia are now awaiting the policy decision from the Bank of Japan , which is widely expected to keep interest rates unchanged at 0.75%. US stock market today Wall Street closed sharply lower on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve kept US interest rates unchanged and indicated only one rate cut for the year, as policymakers assessed economic risks stemming from rising oil prices and the ongoing conflict involving the US, Israel, and Iran. The S&P 500 fell 1.36% to finish at 6,624.70, marking its lowest close in nearly four months and taking its 2026 decline to about 3%. The Nasdaq Composite dropped 1.46% to 22,152.42, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average slid 1.63% to 46,225.15. Major stock indexes declined after Fed Chair Jerome Powell, during a press conference, emphasized the economic instability triggered by the ongoing conflict in the Middle East. Updated projections from the US central bank showed that the benchmark overnight interest rate is expected to decline by just 25 basis points by year-end, with no clarity on the timing. (With inputs from agencies) Disclaimer : This story is for educational purposes only. Please consult with an investment advisor before making any investment decisions.