Google’s Pixel 11 series is just five months away, and the leaks are already rolling in. The first CAD renders made me do a double-take because at first glance, it feels like nothing has changed. But take a closer look at the display, and those bezels are finally slimming down. If these renders are accurate, it’s a sleek upgrade in the looks department. And that is just the beginning; there is a lot more that has leaked, so buckle up, it is going to be a fun ride. What’s different this time around? Android Headlines Though the aesthetics are stuck in the past, it seems Google won’t exactly be serving a stale flagship dish. As per the latest leak, the Pixel 11 will shift to the sixth-generation in-house Tensor silicon, featuring a unique 7-core architecture, and tagging alongside 12 gigs of RAM and 128GB of onboard storage. A key change is that Google will ditch the Samsung-made modem in favor of a MediaTek networking chip. Let’s hope this loyalty switch solves the long-standing connectivity woes of the Pixel lineup. Over at the front, buyers will be greeted by a 6.3-inch OLED screen with a 120Hz refresh rate. Surprisingly, details about the imaging hardware have been omitted. Google has stuck with 50-megapixel and 48-megapixel sensors for years. I am hoping that the Pixel 11 series (especially the Pro models) will finally upgrade to more megapixel-heavy cameras, or simply bigger sensors. If not, they don’t stand a chance against Eastern heavy-hitters such as the Vivo X300 Ultra and the Oppo Find X9 Ultra, unless Google pulls off some outrageous computational camera wizardry. The Pixel 11 countdown has begun Android Headlines The Google Pixel 11, like its predecessors, is expected to debut in August 2026. While no official date has been confirmed yet, that timeline feels about right. As for the price, the Pixel 11 will likely stick close to the Pixel 10 ’s $799 mark. Here’s where things get interesting. It would be fantastic if Google finally ditched the 128GB base model and made 256GB the standard, just like the iPhone 17 and the Samsung Galaxy S26 . After all, with apps, photos, and videos ballooning in size every year, a little extra storage feels like a must-have. If Google pulls this off, it could make the Pixel 11 feel not just familiar but smartly upgraded.