In a rather disappointing announcement, Apple officially pulled the plug on the Mac Pro on March 26, 2026 . You cannot find the system on the company’s website anymore, at least not where it used to be. If you ask me, it’s a cold send-off for the machine that once defined what professional computing meant. The product page now redirects visitors to the general Mac homepage. However, you can still find one if you are okay with a used one. At the time of writing this story, Apple’s Certified Refurbished store has 17 units still quietly listed and available for purchase. They include both tower-style desktops and rack-mount builds. Apple Can you still get your hands on a Mac Pro? The cheapest used Mac Pro (tower-style) costs $6,289.00 and features the M2 Ultra chip with a 24-core CPU and 60-core GPU. There’s another one (rack-mount) with the same chip but a 24-core CPU and a 76-core GPU that costs $8,239.00. The most expensive one, meanwhile, goes north of $10,000 for a tower-style unit with the same chip, a 24-core CPU, and a 76-core GPU. Neither figure is easy on the wallet, but for professionals who specifically want easy PCIe expansion — something that the Mac Studio still can’t replicate — this may be the last opportunity to buy one directly from Apple. Brittany Hose-Small / AFP via Getty Images The refurbished unit comes with Apple’s one-year warranty The device comes with Apple’s standard one-year limited warranty, the same coverage it provides for brand-new devices. For your own peace of mind, you can also add AppleCare+ or AppleCare One coverage during checkout. You also get a 14-day return policy and free delivery. In my frank opinion, Apple’s refurbished stock won’t last long. Once these units are sold out, Apple has made it abundantly clear there won’t be any more. The company has already confirmed it has no plans to offer future Mac Pro hardware. If you always wanted to get a Mac Pro, and you’re okay with getting it as a refurbished product from Apple, this is probably your last chance to get one.