Getting to work at home, whether it’s for yourself or not, is something a lot of people end up having to do. It’s all good and well if you’ve already got equipment, but if you’re thinking about unlocking that ability, then you need the right tools for the job. While a laptop can be a good fit for a lot of people, many others would rather just have a PC. The trick is finding one at a good price with enough power. There are some good options around at the moment, and a lot of them are on sale thanks to the Amazon Big Spring Sale. Take this Acer Aspire Business Desktop, for example, which is listed as normally costing $800, but is on sale for $300 instead for a limited time . We don’t know how long the deal will last, but that’s quite the discount. See at Amazon Get To Work This desktop has some solid specs. It comes with an Intel Celeron N4505 processor, which will keep it ticking along nicely with all of your admin tasks, and 8GB of RAM, which should allow for some modest multitasking as well. It’s not going to be the fastest thing anybody has seen, but it’ll cover all of the basis comfortably, allowing you to tackle things like your accounts, word processing, or other standard tasks without any issues at all. Plus, if you’re looking to do so, you can always upgrade it later as it’s just a standard PC. Along with that, it has a 256GB SSD which will allow you to save a lot of work down locally, and it has an SD card reader for a little bit more storage if you want to do it like that. It also has 4K monitor support, although you’ll actually need to buy one to do that. It even comes with Windows 11 installed, so you’re going to have no issues dealing with your operating system for a long time to come. It’s got everything you need to get going. This deal isn’t likely to last for very long though, so if you want to pick it up, you’re going to need to be fast. The $300 price tag is a substantial discount, so we recommend being as fast as possible in order to secure it. You don’t want to miss out on this deal if it’s something you’re looking for and you can afford it. See at Amazon