Smart homes are becoming more and more common as the technology behind the devices gets cheaper and cheaper. While there are plenty of different options out there, a lot of people underestimate the power of the humble smart plug. You can basically turn anything into a convenient smart home device with a good smart plug, and that’s amazing. If you’re looking to get yourself one while it’s cheap, then you’re going to want to get in on today’s deal. Thanks to the Amazon Big Spring Sale, you can currently pick up the Amazon Smart Plug while it’s down to just $20 thanks to a 20% discount. That’s an absurdly good price, but it’s one that we’re not expecting to last for very long. So, if you do want to pick this one up, make sure you’re quick. See at Amazon Make It Smart Because this is an Amazon smart device, it runs with Alexa really well, which means that a lot people will already have a way to control it using just their voice. We’re not saying it’s the coolest thing you can do, but there’s no denying the appeal of shouting at your lamp to get it to turn on or off. You can even use the Alexa app to control it too, which is incredibly handy. Using this means that you can turn anything into a smart device, which means that you can turn that antique lamp into something a little bit more modern, at least in terms of convenience. It’s just a really solid device, and the chance to get it while it’s down at this price point. Despite all of this utility as well, it’s shockingly small, so you’re not going to be closing off any other outlets just because you want to upgrade some plugs. It’s reliable too, because it’ll actually automatically reconnect to your internet if something happens to the WiFi or the power in your home. This is an amazing price for one of the most affordable smart plugs on the market. Being able to get one of these while it’s down to $20 is a chance you really don’t want to miss out on, because who knows how long it’ll last for. Better yet, if you’re looking to grab a couple of these at the same time, you can actually do so for just $35, which saves you a little bit more money if you want to upgrade more of your outlets. See at Amazon