Gold, silver rate today LIVE: The gold and silver prices fell in Thursday's trading session following the announcement of the US Federal Reserve's policy decision in the overnight session. The high crude oil prices amid the US-Iran war also kept the bullion in the limelight. The Middle East conflict is in its third week, with US-Israeli attacks against Iran and Tehran’s retaliatory strikes showing no signs of slowing down. Along expected lines, the US Federal Reserve decided to keep the key interest rate unchanged for the second consecutive time this year after three back-to-back 0.25% cuts. Investors focused on Fed chair Jerome Powell's commentary. The US Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) on March 18 kept benchmark interest rates steady for the second consecutive time, a move largely in line with market expectations given the increased risk of inflation driven by a war in the Middle East. At present, the target range for the federal funds rate stands at 3.5% to 3.75%. The US Federal Reserve maintained a status quo on the federal funds rate for the second consecutive policy decision. In its January meeting, too, the central bank chose to leave rates unchanged after reducing rates in three consecutive policy meetings in September, October, and December 2025. The COMEX Gold traded sharply lower near $4700, witnessing a steep decline of over $100 in a single session and nearly $300 in the last two days, as strong macro headwinds continue to weigh on prices. The fall is primarily driven by the US Fed’s hawkish stance, which has raised concerns about continued inflation amid rising crude oil prices and ongoing geopolitical tensions involving Iran. Likewise, the silver rate today witnessed a sharp sell-off, touching an intraday low of $70.148/oz and logging an intraday loss of around $7.50 per ounce. Recent data indicate gold and silver have slipped to one-month lows near $4710, pressured by a stronger dollar and higher bond yields, as markets price in a “higher-for-longer” interest rate scenario. Key levels for gold and silver rates today Gold has broken below the crucial $4,800 support, with the next support at $4,700 and a crucial support at $4,650. Similarly, the silver rate today has a crucial support placed at $70 per ounce. On breaking below this support on a closing basis, the precious white metal may try to test its recent low of $63. — Anuj Gupta, a SEBI-registered market expert Gold, silver rates today Live: Opportunity to buy or wait for more correction? Despite geopolitical tensions typically supporting safe-haven demand, the current environment is dominated by inflation-led policy-tightening expectations, which are negative for non-yielding assets like gold. Rising oil prices are further reinforcing inflation risks, reducing the likelihood of near-term rate cuts. On MCX, gold remains technically weak, with resistance now shifting lower towards ₹ 1,50,000, while key support is seen in the ₹ 1,44,000 to ₹ 1,42,000 zone. The overall short-term trend remains weak to volatile, and price action will continue to react sharply to developments in interest rate expectations and geopolitical cues. — Jateen Trivedi, VP Research — Commodity & Currency at LKP Securities Track this space for all the LIVE updates on gold and silver rate today.