Published Wed, Mar 25, 2026 · 10:45 PM — Updated Wed, Mar 25, 2026 · 11:48 PM [WASHINGTON] US President Donald Trump appointed Meta Platforms CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Oracle Executive chairman Larry Ellison and Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang to a council that will weigh in on AI policy and other issues, the White House said on Wednesday (Mar 25). Google co-founder Sergey Brin and AMD CEO Lisa Su are also part of the initial batch of 13 members from the industry named to the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST). Trump has made securing US leadership in artificial intelligence a central priority of his second term, framing the technology as a defining arena of strategic competition with China. Within days of taking office in January last year, he directed federal agencies to prepare an AI Action Plan aimed at reducing regulatory barriers and accelerating private-sector innovation. The council, which is expected to play a key role in shaping Washington’s response to intensifying global competition in artificial intelligence, could ultimately include up to 24 members, the White House said. The latest appointments signal closer alignment between the administration and major technology companies. Additional members will be appointed to the council in the near future, the White House said. Navigate Asia in a new global order Get the insights delivered to your inbox. The council will be co-chaired by White House AI and crypto czar David Sacks and technology adviser Michael Kratsios. Zuckerberg and Nvidia said the council would help strengthen the US’ position in AI, while Oracle declined to comment. Alphabet and AMD did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Bob Mumgaard, CEO and co-founder of Commonwealth Fusion Systems, also joined the council. Mumgaard joining PCAST is a big signal of the US government’s support for the fusion industry, the company said. Artificial intelligence has emerged as a major driver of US investment, with companies pledging trillions of US dollars in spending over the coming years as the Trump administration pushes to accelerate the sector’s growth. REUTERS Decoding Asia newsletter: your guide to navigating Asia in a new global order. Sign up here to get Decoding Asia newsletter. Delivered to your inbox. Free.