My top 10 things to watch Tuesday, March 24 1. We're looking at a lower open this morning as oil prices resumed their rally, pushing global crude benchmark Brent back above $100 a barrel. Yesterday was all about hopes that the Iran war will be resolved after President Donald Trump touted "productive" talks. But we've since seen new attacks, so the conflict is still on. 2. My trusted momentum indicator, the S & P Oscillator , moved to minus 5.2 after yesterday's rally on war resolution optimism. That still indicates an oversold market, but not as bad as before. I actually would've preferred it to stay more oversold. Hard to rally off these levels. We might see a consolidation, barring any new reasons to believe the war will end soon. 3. Chip designer Arm Holdings is hosting its "Arm Everywhere" event this afternoon, where we should hear more about its important place in the world of AI computing. Arm and Club name Nvidia are close partners, as Arm CEO Rene Haas stressed to me last week . We expect the announcement of a new Nvidia-Arm chip today. 4. OpenAI finance chief Sarah Friar is set to join me tonight on "Mad Money." Among the many topics we'll cover: Is the ChatGPT creator closing in on an initial public offering? Potential blockbuster IPOs later this year, from the likes of Elon Musk's SpaceX and OpenAI rival Anthropic, may be one of 2026's biggest market stories. 5. Big call: Bank of America upgraded AI computing provider CoreWeave to buy. The market is doubting the durability of CoreWeave, with shares down more than $100 apiece from their highs. But BofA argued CoreWeave's software stack and strategic alliances with Nvidia and OpenAI are important advantages over other "neoclouds." Analysts also think CoreWeave is financing its massive capex plans prudently. 6. Venture Global's price target at Goldman Sachs was raised to $18.50 from $15. Analysts reiterated their buy rating. I also think this one can be bought as a play on growing U.S. exports of liquefied natural gas. Our LNG is a lot more valuable to the world thanks to Middle East supply disruptions. 7. UBS upgraded JFrog to buy from hold, saying the stock now offers an attractive risk/reward following the AI disruption sell-off. JFrog is a key provider of software development infrastructure. But it has a substantial subscription-based business, so it can't be bought. Just forget about it. 8. Ralph Lauren was upgraded to buy from hold at Citi. Analysts believe Ralph Lauren's formidable topline growth and margin expansion will continue, and the stock's 4% drop this year offers a good entry point. There's a lot to like about the RL story. But in truth, shares haven't seen much of a sell-off, so be careful. 9. Evercore put a "tactical outperform" designation on Boston Scientific , while keeping its buy rating and $96 price target. I like this call, as the medical technology provider will present positive data this weekend at a cardiology conference, and the stock has been a dog. 10. Shares of investment bank Jefferies are up about 8% this morning after The Financial Times reported that Japan's Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group is prepping plans for an acquisition. However, Bloomberg News reported that SMFG has "no immediate plan" for a takeover. Jefferies stock has fallen 36% this year in part because of First Brands' bankruptcy fallout. Sign up for my Top 10 Morning Thoughts on the Market email newsletter for free (See here for a full list of the stocks at Jim Cramer's Charitable Trust.) As a subscriber to the CNBC Investing Club with Jim Cramer, you will receive a trade alert before Jim makes a trade. Jim waits 45 minutes after sending a trade alert before buying or selling a stock in his charitable trust's portfolio. If Jim has talked about a stock on CNBC TV, he waits 72 hours after issuing the trade alert before executing the trade. THE ABOVE INVESTING CLUB INFORMATION IS SUBJECT TO OUR TERMS AND CONDITIONS AND PRIVACY POLICY , TOGETHER WITH OUR DISCLAIMER . NO FIDUCIARY OBLIGATION OR DUTY EXISTS, OR IS CREATED, BY VIRTUE OF YOUR RECEIPT OF ANY INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH THE INVESTING CLUB. NO SPECIFIC OUTCOME OR PROFIT IS GUARANTEED.