As SpaceX potentially readies to begin the progress of going public in the coming days, investors already have funds to play it. The Information reported Tuesday that the Elon Musk-run startup is looking to file its initial public offering prospectus with regulators as early as this week. Advisers involved said the company could raise more than $75 billion, making it potentially one of the biggest IPOs ever, the report said. SpaceX has reportedly been looking at a Nasdaq listing while vying for early entry into the Nasdaq 100 index. Here are some of the funds with exposure to SpaceX: SpaceX is the Baron Partners Fund (BPTRX) 's largest holding, accounting for nearly a third of the total portfolio. Alongside Tesla , which is also run by Musk, the pair accounts for more than half of the holdings in BPTRX. The fund's retail shares are down about 5% in 2026, according to Morningstar data. It climbed more than 24% in 2025, putting it in the seventh-percentile of comparable funds. SpaceX also accounts for nearly a quarter or the Baron Focused Growth Fund (BFGIX) . Tesla follows, representing just over 6% of holdings. The fund's institutional shares are off more than 4% in 2026, according to Morningstar. But the fund is coming off three years of double-digit gains, Morningstar said. SpaceX makes up 18% of Cathie Wood's ARK Venture Fund (ARKVX) . Anthropic, Databricks and Groq are also among the private companies the fund is exposed to. ARKVX is up more than 6% in 2026, building on last year's gain of more than 55%. The Private-Public Crossover ETF (XOVR) has close to 45% exposure to SpaceX. By comparison, Nvidia is the next largest holding at around 4%. The ETF has tumbled roughly 15% so far this year. The fund added nearly 12% in 2025, but was among the bottom quartile of comparable offerings, per Morningstar. In individual stocks, EchoStar — which owns around 3% stake in SpaceX — jumped 8% on Wednesday following the IPO report. Shares are up around 10% this year, building on 2025's 375% rally.