(Image credit: Getty Images) For many private business owners, their company is not just a source of pride but also the cornerstone of their personal wealth. Ensuring the longevity of that value — both for the business and their family — requires careful, proactive planning. Yet too often, estate planning and business succession are treated as separate projects, when in fact, their integration is essential for maximizing value , minimizing taxes, and ensuring a smooth transition regardless of whether the business is designed for the next generation of family owners or is being groomed for sale. This article explores how business owners can strategically combine succession and estate planning to secure their legacy and provide for the next generation. Article continues below From just $107.88 $24.99 for Kiplinger Personal Finance Become a smarter, better informed investor. Subscribe from just $107.88 $24.99, plus get up to 4 Special Issues CLICK FOR FREE ISSUE Sign up for Kiplinger’s Free Newsletters Profit and prosper with the best of expert advice on investing, taxes, retirement, personal finance and more - straight to your e-mail. Profit and prosper with the best of expert advice - straight to your e-mail. The power of a unified plan It's a common misconception that estate planning can wait until after business succession is sorted — or vice versa. In reality, the value and structure of a business, its ownership model and family dynamics are deeply intertwined. Consider the example of an owner who set up their company as an S corporation . By using a grantor trust to transfer shares to heirs, they not only maintain control of the business but also significantly reduce estate taxes. Such outcomes are maximized when a business owner collaborates with their full team of legal, financial and business advisers years in advance of the actual succession events. Start by assembling a multidisciplinary team — estate and corporate attorneys, business advisers and tax professionals — who can develop a coordinated plan tailored to your company and family. As circumstances evolve, revisit your plan regularly to keep it current and effective. Timing the transition One of the most frequent questions business owners face is, "When is the best time to sell?" The answer is rarely straightforward. The ideal timing depends on several factors: Market conditions, the readiness of both management and successors, and the owner's personal goals. Owners should monitor business valuations regularly, ideally with the support of a trusted accounting team and an investment banker familiar with the company's industry. This vigilance helps identify favorable windows for a sale, whether to family or third parties. But financials aren't the only consideration. Owners should assess whether key managers are prepared for a transition and whether there's a capable team to sustain the business after a sale. Equally important is the owner's own readiness, both emotionally and financially, for life after the transaction . Practical steps: Track business performance and market valuations consistently Consider pre-sale gifting of ownership interests to children or trusts to optimize tax outcomes Request a "sale readiness checklist" from advisers to address financials, key personnel and governance agreements before initiating a sale Navigating family dynamics and tax strategy Family-owned businesses often encounter unique challenges — especially when not all heirs are equally involved in the company. For instance, tension can arise when one child is active in the business and another is not. Even more challenging are cousins who have disparate roles in the business. In such cases, clarity is crucial. A buy-sell agreement , backed by a trust structure, can provide income for non-active owners while ensuring business continuity for those driving the business forward. Key solutions: Use buy-sell agreements to clarify governance, compensation and ownership transfer rules Hold regular family meetings to communicate and reinforce the succession plan Establish trust structures, such as irrevocable trusts, to transfer interests, provide family income and protect assets from creditors The right tax strategies can also make a significant difference. Vehicles such as grantor retained annuity trusts (GRATs), spousal lifetime access trusts (SLATs) and intentionally defective grantor trusts (IDGTs) allow for the transfer of appreciating assets out of the estate, minimizing estate tax liabilities. Charitable remainder trusts can further diversify assets and support philanthropic goals while providing ongoing income. Building for the future A robust business succession and estate plan is not a one-time task — it's an ongoing process. Owners who begin early and engage proactively will have the greatest flexibility, the most efficient tax outcomes, and the peace of mind that their business and family are well provided for. Next steps for owners: Convene your team of legal, financial and business advisers, and start the conversation. Review and update estate plan documents and operating agreements to reflect current goals and realities. Develop a clear, actionable roadmap for succession, sale or legacy ownership. Start communicating your plan to your family sooner than you think. Do this in pieces so your family can digest it, provide input and build confidence in working together. Communicate your plan to key stakeholders and provide the right tools to make them comfortable with their role and future. The best time to begin succession and estate planning is now. By integrating these efforts, involving the right advisers and addressing family and business needs head-on and collaboratively, owners can maximize the value of their companies, ensure a successful transition and secure their legacy. Keith Berk , partner at Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton, represents larger-sized closely held businesses and their owners in mergers and acquisitions and as outside general counsel. He is well-known as a facilitator for middle-market "deals," implementing a wide range of tax-advantaged capital structures, shareholder and family-ownership structures, and private-equity structures to enhance growth and to provide exit strategies. Alan Leib , partner at Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton, focuses his practice on mergers and acquisitions and serving as outside general counsel, including all aspects of business planning. He has advised public and private companies in a broad range of business sectors, including food, beverage and health technology industries. Related Content This article was written by and presents the views of our contributing adviser, not the Kiplinger editorial staff. You can check adviser records with the SEC or with FINRA .