Finally, Apple has confirmed the dates for its annual developer conference — WWDC 2026 — the event that lays the ground for the new iOS, iPadOS, and macOS versions that will be available for everyone in September 2026. However, alongside the yearly operating system refresh, the event also has the responsibility of revealing Apple’s advancements in AI . Unlike last year, the company might also showcase some new hardware (and the important ones no less), making it even more interesting. When is Apple hosting WWDC 2026? Apple Apple has officially announced that WWDC 2026 will take place from June 8 to June 12, 2026. Amid all the mini events, the keynote on June 8 at 10 AM PT matters the most. We’d expect Apple to kick off the keynote with Tim Cook’s remarks , followed by Apple’s SVP of software engineering, Craig Federighi, taking the stage, and other executives closely associated with the new developments. The same day, Apple will host the Platforms State of the Union and its in-person events with the developers and students. The technical sessions, interactive lab sessions, and one-on-one appointments with developers would take place through June 12, 2026. Apple Intelligence to level up with Siri 2.0 Apple Apple hasn’t been shy about promising a smarter AI experience, especially in the last year or two, but it’s the follow-through that’s been the problem. However, WWDC 2026 looks like the event that could change it all. Among the headline acts of the event could be “Campos,” Apple’s completely rebuilt Siri (or Siri 2.0, if you may) . The voice assistant’s new version should offer a true chatbot experience that’s deeply integrated into the upcoming operating systems (iOS 27 and everything else). The new Siri should be capable of searching through web listings, generating images, summarizing information, reading uploaded files, and completing tasks using your personal, on-device data. Unsplash And yes, it should also get the most hyped on-screen awareness feature , where Siri understands whatever is currently on your display and provides relevant suggestions or answers. Apple’s updated Siri will be based on a custom language model derived from Google’s Gemini — Apple’s front-end feature, powered by Google’s back-end technology. It is also rumored to get a visual redesign, sort of an animated character with a “Clippy-like” personality. Beyond the new Siri, Apple is expected to introduce Core AI, a significant expansion of Core ML that will improve developer tools for running large language and diffusion models on the device. iOS 27: The “Snow Leopard” update Nirave Gondhia / Digital Trends If you consider iOS 26 as Apple’s most dramatic update in years , iOS 27 is the quiet, disciplined follow-up. The internal directive handed over to Apple’s engineering team is to brush and comb through the operating system, kill bugs, rewrite legacy code, and streamline everything. The payoff could be meaningful battery-life improvements , even on older iPhone models. While the Liquid Glass design language isn’t going anywhere, iOS 27 is said to include a customisation slider that lets users fine-tune the intensity of the transparent glass effect . What’s interesting is that the slider was shelved during the iOS 26 cycle. iPhone Fold CAD-based render AI Visualization Apart from the behind-the-scenes update, iOS 27 prepares Apple’s operating system for the purported iPhone Fold . It could bring side-by-side multitasking to iOS (for the first time), rebuild first-party app layouts for the larger inner screen, and broaden touch-interaction refinements across the operating system. On the apps front, you could see a delayed Calendar redesign with AI integration and smarter Photo collections, according to leaked code online. Another crucial update could be the support for satellite-based 5G connectivity , possibly shipping with the iPhone 18 Pro, allowing people to use Apple Maps navigation and send photos/videos over satellite. As for compatibility, the iPhone 11 generation appears to be nearing the end of its life, having already been supported for six years. Rest of the fleet: iPadOS, macOS, tvOS, and visionOS 27 Apple Like iOS 27, every other software platform is doubling down on the same formula — refinement, stability, and Siri’s deeper integration. To begin with, iPadOS 27 could get Siri 2.0 , the slider to adjust the Liquid Glass intensity, and likely benefit from the new app layout APIs built for the iPhone Fold. Moreover, iPadOS 27 seems to be the most feature-starved of the bunch. On the flip side, macOS 27 has the most to talk about. This is the release where Apple bids farewell to Intel Macs. Recent rumors suggest that macOS 27 will run exclusively on Apple Silicon (M1 or later) , completing a transition Apple began in 2020. It is also the last version to support Rosetta 2, so Intel-based apps aren’t orphaned overnight. Apple Beyond the general housekeeping, macOS also gets the new Snow Leopard-style treatment, along with the app-based refinements. Another major update worth highlighting is touch optimization for the rumored MacBook Pro variant with a touchscreen , hinting at a timely arrival in the macOS 27 cycle. The remaining platforms, including watchOS 27 (battery efficiency and AI-powered fitness coaching), tvOS 27 (with Apple Intelligence), and visionOS 27, don’t appear to be swinging for the fences. They could include a couple of minor updates at launch. Mac Studio and Mac mini are yet to get updates Fionna Agomuoh / Digital Trends WWDC isn’t usually about new hardware, but 2026 may be an exception for Apple. There are plenty of product rumors, all from credible sources, suggesting we might see quite a few products at the event. Mac Studio , Apple’s portable powerhouse, could get a much-awaited upgrade at the WWDC 2026. We could see new models powered by the M5 Max and M5 Ultra chips (Apple’s first Ultra chip since the M3 Ultra, with up to an 80-core GPU). Apple Bloomberg’s Mark Gurman expects the machine to break cover in mid-2026, and the month of June sounds about right. The chipsets could feature CPU and GPU on separate dies, enabling custom performance configurations that suit heavy professional workloads. Expect to see Thunderbolt 5 ports , up to 96GB of unified memory on the Ultra, all cramped inside an identical chassis. While I’ll appreciate Apple keeping the pricing at $1,999 and $3,999 for the Max and Ultra variants, respectively, I wouldn’t raise my eyebrows if the prices are hiked a bit. Along with the updated Mac Studio, we might see an M5 or M5 Pro Mac mini. Apple’s smart home push could materialize at WWDC Creative visualization using AI Apple could also take the opportunity and the mass media attention to turn some eyes towards its purported lineup of smart home devices, and this is where WWDC 2026 could get genuinely surprising. If not full-fledged showcases, these products could be previewed at the upcoming event. The centerpiece could be the HomePad, Apple’s rumored seven-inch hub with an A18 chip , a 1080p ultrawide camera with Center Stage, and proximity sensors to detect when someone is in the room. The device could also support FaceTime without an iPhone, which might prove crucial to the company’s vision for the product — a smart home hub that doesn’t require the iPhone for everything. Amazon The HomePad could come in two form factors: wall-mount and a countertop version with a HomePod mini-style speaker base. In his recent newsletter, Mark Gurman mentioned how the device has been ready for months , but the company hasn’t released it due to the delay in the arrival of the updated Siri. Recent rumors suggest that HomePad won’t be available until iOS 27 arrives later this year, but there’s a chance that Apple might tease it during the WWDC keynote. We could also get a few glimpses of a new HomeKit security camera and of a unified smart home platform called homeOS that holds all the connected devices together. Rounding everything out could be the HomePod mini 2, the HomePod 3, and the Apple TV 4K refresh , with new connectivity features. I’ll admit: WWDC 2026 won’t be the loudest keynote Apple has ever staged, specifically with regards to software, but it could be one of the most important launch events for the company’s unreleased devices. Underneath the stability passes, the API groundwork, and the carefully managed Siri expectations, Apple is quietly assembling the pieces for its most ambitious product cycle in years.