Mark Zuckerberg and Elon Musk were obsessed. There was a new kid on the block and the two biggest boys in the neighbourhood were suddenly worried that he would eat their lunch. A Facebook whistleblower has described how Zuckerberg, the co-founder of Facebook and chief executive of Meta, its parent company, feared for the future of his social media behemoth when the Chinese online video platform TikTok began gaining traction a few years ago. Matt Motyl, a former senior staff researcher at Facebook and Meta, says that Zuckerberg was concerned that TikTok would overtake Meta and began pouring resources into Reels, the video format for users of Facebook and Instagram. The bold move came with a drawback, Motyl contends in a new BBC documentary. He was frustrated because there was a “common trade-off between protecting people from harmful content and engagement”. He showed the BBC what are apparently internal Meta documents, including one that recorded how Reels posts have a higher “violating hostile speech prevalence” in a number of categories than posts that appear on users’ feeds: 75 per cent higher for bullying and harassment posts, 19 per cent higher for hate speech and 7 per cent higher for violence and incitement. Motyl, who worked for Facebook and Meta from 2019 to 2023, claims that integrity teams at the company were disadvantaged because to protect people from harm on the sites they have to convince the bosses in charge of the feed and Reels to sign off on a product change. There is a “power imbalance”, he says, because the feed and Reels teams have incentives to not make changes to the products “because toxic stuff gets more engagement than nontoxic”. Lisa Jennings Young, head of design, trust and safety at Twitter from 2019 to 2022, says in the documentary, which airs on March 16, that Twitter had “a rage-based business model”. She recounts Musk telling employees when he took over Twitter, which he rebranded as X in 2023, that he wanted it to be “more like TikTok. He was focused on making Twitter what he called ‘hardcore’.” Marc Burrows, who was on the curation team at Twitter from 2015 to 2022, says that when a serious incident happened their job had been to ensure that tweets pushing unverified information were pushed down in the algorithm. But he says that the first thing Musk did was take away safeguards. After the Southport killings unsubstantiated opinions speculating about the identity of the attacker spread fast. “That is a spider web of misinformation that grows and grows and grows,” he says. After the killings there were riots in the town sparked by misinformation that the killer was an illegal immigrant. He adds: “We knew that people with an agenda could game the algorithm, could harness this huge amount of power. I knew exactly what was going to happen.” Musk has sole control of the platform, Burrows says. “He can tweak and nudge the algorithm to boost certain kinds of opinions and push down others. It is complete gaming of freedom of speech.” An anonymous contributor to the programme says they worked at Meta building algorithms to reduce the amount of “borderline” harmful content. Over time, this engineer says, there was a move towards allowing more of this riskier content. The engineer said this was connected to the engagement race with TikTok: “You’re losing to TikTok and therefore your stock price must suffer. People started becoming paranoid and reactive. And they were like, ‘Let’s just do whatever we can to catch up. Where can we get like 2, 3 per cent revenue for the next quarter?’” Motyl says that the algorithm at Facebook is built to prioritise the content that gets the most engagement. “And the political content that gets the most engagement is typically misinformation,” he says. “It’s typically very toxic, so people yelling and being really mean to each other. Meta’s products are used by north of three billion people and the more time they can keep you on there, the more ads they sell and the more money they make.” The former Facebook employee Matt Motyl, right, with the BBC social media investigations correspondent Marianna Spring BBC One of the internal documents the BBC programme highlights is titled “Does Facebook reward outrage?” It says: “The more negative comments a piece of content instigates, the higher the likelihood for the link to get more traffic.” The document, which appears to be from a few years ago, says that the set of financial incentives the algorithms create does not appear to be aligned with the company’s mission (which was to bring the world closer together). Frances Haugen, a former Facebook employee, produced similar material when she turned whistleblower and caused a storm in 2021, releasing thousands of internal documents that showed how Meta appeared to prioritise growth over the safety of its users. Meta and YouTube are defendants in a test case under way in Los Angeles in which they are accused of building addictive products that harmed the mental and emotional health of a 20-year-old woman. TikTok and Snapchat settled before the case started. Ruofan Ding, a machine learning engineer at ByteDance’s TikTok from 2020 to 2024, says he started noticing more and more issues of “borderline” harmful content on TikTok. “For example, something subtle like a conspiracy theory or problematic content that will only be seen after you browse for more than a certain time,” he says. “As the model becomes more advanced, I think the borderline content issue becomes more noticeable.” Asked whether it is possible to build a recommendation system that is inherently safe, he says he doesn’t know the answer. “We have no control on the deep learning algorithm. To us it’s still like a very black box, how internally it works.” Marianna Spring, the BBC’s social media investigations correspondent, speaks to an anonymous employee who works in trust and safety at TikTok, and who says they felt obliged to speak out because they feel guilty about what they are instructed to do on a daily basis. “The platform is being used by children, so it’s upon that platform to be held at a high level of accountability,” the employee says. “And there’s content out there linked to terrorism, sexual violence, physical violence, abuse, trafficking. It feels like it’s increasing.” Spring: “There’s content out there linked to terrorism, sexual violence, physical violence, abuse, trafficking. It feels like it’s increasing.” BBC TikTok said ensuring it continues to be safe is “our most important work. We removed almost 90 million underage accounts in the past year and teen accounts have more than 50 preset safety features and settings automatically turned on. We invest in technology that helps prevent harmful content from ever being viewed… and provide features for people to tailor their experiences.” X told the BBC it has recently open sourced its algorithm. It says that it promotes “healthy conversations” and seeks to “prevent amplification of harmful content”. A statement from Meta says: “Any suggestion that we deliberately amplify harmful content for financial gain is wrong. We have strict policies to protect users on our platforms and have made significant investments in safety and security. We have listened to parents and experts, researched the issues, and made real changes to protect teens online — like introducing Teen Accounts, which come with built-in protections and tools for parents to manage their teens’ experiences.” Meta says it tested Reels for nearly a year before releasing it “with a robust set of safety controls and measures. In 2025, we actioned over six million Reels per month across Facebook and Instagram globally for violating our policies.” In December it announced a new way for users to say what Instagram topics they want more or less of. During the Southport riots , it says, a dedicated taskforce removed rule-breaking content. For some of us, social media algorithms are a little irritating and can seem slightly unsophisticated. Clearly I once lingered for a moment on a video of a woman parking her car across a neighbour’s drive, and now the algorithm labours under the misapprehension that I want to keep seeing the same clip and numerous other “Karen” videos. Others are much more distressed by what they are shown. Teenage students in the documentary complain that they don’t like seeing violent videos and report them to social media sites, but after a day or two similar content returns to their feeds. “I’ve told them, ‘I don’t want to see this,’ over and over again and they just keep it there,” one girl says. Another says she spends five hours a day on social media. “It doesn’t make me feel great… but I just get addicted.” The TikTok whistleblower has one word of advice to parents of children using the site they work for: “Delete it. Keep them as far away as possible from the app for as long as possible.” Inside the Rage Machine is on BBC iPlayer