Paramount/ZDNET Amazon's Big Spring Sale is just around the corner, but Paramount+ is already offering a great deal this month: Subscribe to Paramount+ right now for just $2.99 a month for the first two months , whether you sign up for Paramount+ Premium without ads (saving you $11 a month) or Paramount+ Essential with ads (saving you $6 a month). This deal runs through March 31, and both new and former subscribers are eligible. Also: The best live TV streaming services of 2026: Expert tested This deal is open to those 18 and up, for monthly plans only. After the first two discounted months, if you don't cancel your subscription, it will auto-renew at the current full price of your plan (presently $8.99 a month for Paramount+ Essential or $13.99 a month for Paramount+ Premium, plus tax as applicable). I'm a Paramount+ subscriber, and find that it has a surprisingly varied catalog. It's home to original shows like Landman, Star Trek: Starfleet Academy, Tulsa King, MobLand, and Star Trek: Strange New Worlds. There are Comedy Central shows like South Park, and MTV shows like RuPaul's Drag Race. If you have kids (or are a nostalgic '90s kid), you'll also find tons of Nickelodeon and Nick Jr. content, like SpongeBob SquarePants, Paw Patrol, and Peppa Pig. Don't miss this chance to get two months of Paramount+ for just $2.99 a month . How I rated this deal Saving over 50% on a streaming service is a great deal, even if it's only for a couple of months. If you've been wanting to check out some of the shows and movies on Paramount+ without paying full price, this is a great way to do it -- just make sure you cancel before the two months are up if you don't want to continue paying full price. This deal for a discounted Paramount+ subscription ends March 31, 2026. Deals are subject to sell out or expire any time, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to save and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com . Show more Amazon's Big Spring Sale runs March 25-31, 2026. Show more We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision. At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2026 Show more