Zooey Liao/ZDNET Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google. ZDNET's key takeaways Amazon's annual Big Spring Sale returns next week, running March 25-31 featuring savings across categories, including beauty, fashion, home, lawn and garden, tech and more. Everyone is eligible to shop the sale, not just Prime members -- though members will gain exclusive access to select "Prime Spring Deals." Expect discounts of up to 40% off (and sometimes more), like up to 40% off fashion, up to 30% off beauty, up to 35% off kitchen, and up to 25% off home. Plus, new Doorbuster deals start at 40% off in categories like electronics and more. Amazon confirmed that its Big Spring Sale savings event is officially back. On Monday, the retailer finally unveiled that the sale will run March 25 to March 31 this year, which is about a week away. Until now, the retail giant had not confirmed any dates for the sale, nor had the brand even publicized a spring savings event for 2026. However, our early research pointed toward the Spring Sale on the horizon back in February, thanks to early leaks , with dates mimicking last year's -- and we were spot on. Also: Amazon's Big Spring Sale 2026: What to expect and everything to know What time does the Amazon Big Spring Sale start? Amazon's annual Big Spring Sale (more commonly known as the Amazon Spring Sale) will return on Wednesday, March 25, and run through Tuesday, March 31, 2026. In the March 16 announcement, Amazon detailed numerous upcoming offerings. The UK version of the sale, Amazon Spring Deal Days, is wrapping up, running from March 10-16. The upcoming sale will begin promptly at 12:01 a.m. PDT on March 25 and wrap up at 11:59 p.m. PDT on March 31, though early deals and lingering offers are likely to occur (as well as competition from other retailers). New this year, customers can shop the Big Spring Sale in Canada and, for the first time, Mexico, during the same period as the US. What kinds of deals can I expect to find during Amazon's Big Spring Sale 2026? In the release, Amazon shared that shoppers can expect deals across popular categories, including fashion and beauty, outdoor, and more. The sale will feature discounts of up to 40% off (or more) select items across these categories and will include refreshed daily deal drops so customers can snag deals from top brands. New this year are three new "Top 100+" deals lists, incorporating curated collections of seasonal picks: one overall, one in health and wellness, and one for spring favorites. The retailer will also share doorbuster deals starting at 40% off across fashion, beauty, electronics, and more. Amazon specified a few key categories customers can shop, like up to 50% off Amazon Outlet, up to 40% off Easter, up to 35% off kitchen, up to 25% off home, up to 30% off lawn & garden, and even up to 25% off grocery. If you're looking to start shopping right now, Amazon dropped a few early offers as well as activated its live event page. Shop 50% off the Fire TV Remote , 62% off Carrera Smart Glasses , 55% off the Fire TV Stick 4k and more . Shop more exclusive early offers at amazon.com/bigspringsale . Also: 15+ powerful Alexa commands you should start using at home (no subscriptions required) Though all Amazon customers can shop the spring savings event, Prime members can enjoy discounts on additional items. Look for the "Prime Spring Deal" badge to find exclusive savings only available to Prime members. When is Amazon's Spring Sale? Amazon's Big Spring Sale will be from Wednesday, March 25, to Tuesday, March 31, 2026. Do I have to be a Prime member to shop Amazon's Spring Sale? No, you don't have to be a Prime member to shop this sale event. All customers can shop the Amazon Big Spring Sale, although, like last year, Prime members will have special access to select exclusive deals denoted with a "Prime Big Deals" badge. If you're not a Prime member yet, you can join before the Big Spring Sale kickoff to receive member benefits like free shipping, entertainment, exclusive savings, and more. Show more