E lon Musk is not just the richest man in the world, he’s more than twice as rich as the next guy. He has 14 children, among them X Æ A-Xii, Exa Dark Sideræl, Techno Mechanicus and Romulus. He promotes white supremacists. He wants to colonise M ars and the moon . So many aspects of his life are so extreme and weird that it’s hard to see beyond them to the more mundane matter of his business model. But since that, aside from some oddly named children, is what he will leave behind him, it is a matter of some interest. That’s what Muskism is about. The book’s title doffs its cap to Fordism — the notion that Henry Ford didn’t just make cars, but also created a model of mass production and consumption that changed the world. Musk’s model is very different to Ford’s. He may appear also to be a man selling cars, but actually, Quinn Slobodian and Ben Tarnoff argue, he’s selling “technosecurity” — the idea that in an insecure world, people and states need to buy the energy self-sufficiency, surveillance systems, robotics and AI that Musk provides to make their families and their society safe. The seeds of Muskism lie in apartheid-era South Africa. Those who regard Musk’s native country in the 1970s and 1980s as merely an oppressive pariah state tend to overlook the sophistication with which the government used technology to embed its power. “Mainframes were used to count, track and reallocate black labourers; blueprints for auto factories were used to create homegrown industry; nuclear weapons gave the regime the ultimate defence against their enemies.” When Musk left South Africa for Canada in 1989 to avoid the draft, then moved to California, “apartheid South Africa came along like a spore in his luggage”. In the innocent days of the mid-1990s the internet was widely regarded as a means of liberating people from the state and capitalism. Musk created businesses that put the internet in the service of both. His first business, Zip2, set up in 1995, was a directory of San Francisco businesses whose data was derived from a constellation of GPS satellites built by the Pentagon. His next venture, PayPal, enabled companies to monetise their internet activities and thus brought capitalism to the web. He used the money he made from that to launch himself into the business that had long obsessed him: space. The space industry, dominated by Nasa, was bogged down in bureaucracy. Musk brought to it the Silicon Valley approach to management. SpaceX’s engineers would work all night and try out any number of solutions. “If we’re not blowing up engines, we’re not trying hard enough,” Musk told a group of US Air Force cadets. By cutting the cost of launching a satellite to less than one tenth of its previous level, he made himself indispensable to the government. By 2025, SpaceX accounted for 95 per cent of orbital launches in the US and half of the world market. Books newsletter News, reviews, author interviews and suggested reads from our literary editors. Sign up with one click SpaceX launched Starlink, a network of more than 8,000 satellites — two thirds of the total that are active. “If you look up at the night sky and you see a small light moving, it is more than likely that it belongs to Musk.” Starlink is crucial to military communications and has thus given Musk unprecedented power over an area that had previously been reserved for states. After Reuters reported that Starlink crippled a planned counteroffensive on Kherson by the Ukrainian army, the Polish foreign minister warned that if Starlink was an “unreliable provider” his country would be “forced to look for other suppliers”. Musk retorted, “Be quiet, small man.” Musk with his son X Æ A-Xii and Donald Trump in the Oval Office Jim WATSON/AFP via Getty Images With Tesla, he overturned the conventional wisdom of how a company should be run. When he launched the firm, the world economy was all about outsourcing and globalised supply chains. Musk did the opposite. The car promises energy autonomy, through US-generated renewable power, and its production system is vertically integrated, with everything happening under Musk’s own roof. It’s South African-style self-reliance transposed to 21st-century America. And when supply chains broke down during the pandemic and then the Ukraine and Middle East wars, Musk was vindicated. For Musk, self-reliance is not just economic, it’s civilisational. Since buying Twitter and renaming it X, he has been posting on average 60 times a day and sometimes 40 times an hour. That’s in part profitable self-promotion. He used X to turn Dogecoin, a cryptocurrency that started as a joke based on an internet meme, into a business that at its peak was worth $58 billion. “I am become meme,” Musk announced in a toe-curling reference to the quotation — “Now I am become Death, the destroyer of worlds” — from Hindu scripture that Robert Oppenheimer used on witnessing the first atomic bomb explode. But Musk’s proselytising is also motivated by his increasingly extreme political views. He promotes white supremacists and neo-Nazis, appearing to endorse the Great Replacement Theory, which holds that there is a conspiracy to replace white people in America and Europe with ethnic minority populations. He claims that he has tried to avoid his AI model, Grok, becoming a “woke libtard cuck” or a “mechahitler” (a mech is a piloted humanoid robot), but Grok, presumably influenced by its progenitor, tends towards the latter. According to Musk, Western civilisation is thundering towards collapse. Empathy, which he regards as an “exploit” (a vulnerability in civilisation’s code), is partly responsible because it encourages western countries to admit people from antagonistic societies. He also blames low fertility rates — a problem that he is personally putting in the work to fix. When Trump won a second term in power, Musk took over the running of the state. He set up the Department of Government Efficiency and moved in with the usual bevy of hyperactive coders, promising to slash spending. It did not go well. The closure of the United States Agency for International Development is thought to have killed anywhere between 500,000 and 1.5 million people previously dependent on the agency for medications. Much of the rest of the state proved impervious to his efforts. Having lost thousands of potential Tesla customers who were put off by his views, Musk retired from government. The optimistic interpretation is that he had reached the point where his involvement with the state was damaging his business. But while everybody has the option of not buying a Tesla, most of Musk’s products are not the sort that consumers can choose to boycott. As Slobodian and Tarnoff, a historian and tech writer respectively, argue in this fascinating and chilling book, through his space, energy, robotics, AI and defence businesses, he aims to bind so tightly with the state that he becomes indispensable. “Trying to unplug from Musk, you realise that he owns the socket.” Muskism: A Guide for the Perplexed by Quinn Slobodian and Ben Tarnoff (Allen Lane £20 pp256). To order a copy go to timesbookshop.co.uk . Free UK standard P&P on orders over £25. Special discount available for Times+ members