A new tax year means a new £20,000 Isa allowance. And the final weeks of the old tax year could be a good time to have a spring clean of your tax-free investing and decide how to invest any remaining allowance. It’s important to take time deciding which investments to place inside that all-important tax wrapper so that you can build a portfolio that will give your wealth the best chance to flourish. Here are our expert tips on how to invest in 2026. Keeping it simple — check core holdings If you are new to investing then a fund is a good place to start. A fund gives you exposure to a group of companies and your money is pooled with that of other investors. Experts favour starting with a core fund to provide stability, diversification and long-term growth potential. Darius McDermott from the analytics firm FundCalibre said: “A simple global fund is often the best place to begin because it spreads your money across companies around the world in one go. It’s a fund you will feel very comfortable owning throughout the market cycle of ups and downs.” Actively managed funds are those that are run by expert human managers who buy and sell investments on your behalf. McDermott suggested the Jupiter Merian Global Equity fund as a dependable foundation for an Isa. It has returned 89 per cent over five years. He also likes Capital Group New Perspective , which invests in some of the world’s leading companies, such as Microsoft and the pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca. It has returned 48 per cent over five years. Those who prefer a cheap and cheerful approach might want to choose a low-cost global tracker fund, which uses computer algorithms to replicate the holdings of stock market indices, such as the FTSE 100 or S&P500. You could also choose an exchange traded fund (ETF), which is another type of tracker. Dzmitry Lipski from the wealth manager Interactive Investor suggested the UBS Core MSCI World ETF , which tracks the MSCI World Index of more than 1,300 large and mid-cap listed companies. The ETF has returned 73 per cent in five years. Adding spice You could pep up your portfolio with a sprinkling of satellite holdings, spanning riskier, niche areas of the investment world, such as emerging markets and smaller companies. A region or country-specific fund can be an effective way to capture an opportunity — perhaps if you think it’s well positioned for strong long-term growth. Kate Marshall from the investment firm Hargreaves Lansdown highlighted emerging markets such as China, Brazil or India, where consumers are becoming wealthier, driving demand for goods and services at home. She said: “Emerging markets have been somewhat in the shadows lately, while the US has dominated global returns. But that hasn’t always been the case and at some point the balance could shift. In fact we’ve already started to see a resurgence in emerging versus developed markets. A key factor to watch in 2026 is the US dollar. If it continues to weaken, that could be good news for emerging markets.” Marshall suggested JP Morgan Emerging Markets , which invests countries like India and China as well as smaller economies with unique opportunities, such as the Middle East, Turkey and Mexico. It has returned 14 per cent over five years, but 50 per cent over three years. Smaller companies are more volatile and sensitive to economic conditions, but over the long term they have historically delivered higher returns. Marshall said: “They also provide diversification because their mix of sectors and revenue exposure differ from larger companies.” She likes Vanguard Global Small-Cap Index , which has returned 34 per cent over five years and aims to track the MSCI World Small Cap index of about 4,000 companies. Marshall said: “For investors whose portfolios are heavily tilted towards large US growth stocks and who are looking to add some spice to their portfolios, it could add useful diversification.” Because they are more concentrated than broader funds, these types of investments tend to work best as smaller proportions of your Isa. Thematic funds There are plenty of specialist sector funds, such as healthcare, biotechnology or technology, where managers who know their stuff can add value through deeper research. Artificial intelligence is undoubtedly one of the defining investment themes of this decade. The danger is that hype leads investors to concentrate too heavily in a narrow part of the market, particularly the big US tech companies, McDermott warned. “If you hold global funds, you’re likely to be already invested in companies such as Nvidia and Microsoft, so you don’t necessarily want to double up by searching for funds dedicated to this area only.” He added: “The bigger risk for Isa investors is treating AI as a one-way bet. It’s worth remembering that some of the biggest long-term winners may not be the companies building the models but those applying AI to improve productivity across industries.” If you want a fund dedicated to AI, McDermott suggested Landseer Global Artificial Intelligence . Over five years it has returned 62 per cent. For exposure to healthcare, he likes Polar Capital Global Healthcare Trust , which invests in industry leaders such as AstraZeneca, and smaller innovative companies described as disruptors. Over five years it has returned 64 per cent. Tempted by investor rewards? Dividends, the portion of profits a company distributes among its shareholders every year, are tax-free on investments held in an Isa. Equity income funds are specifically focused on producing an income from shares. Managers look to invest in established, cash-generative companies that have the potential to pay out significant dividends to shareholders. If you choose to reinvest that income it can be used to buy more shares which, it is hoped, will grow in value and also produce dividends, boosting your overall returns. Ed Monk at the investment firm Fidelity International suggested Ninety One Diversified Income , which holds bonds, dividend-paying shares, infrastructure and property. It aims to produce a reliable income while keeping overall risk well below that of the UK stock market. It can suit those seeking simplicity and diversification. It has returned 12.7 per cent over five years and at the moment the yield — the rate of annual income relative to unit price — is 4.2 per cent. Dan Coatsworth from the investment manager AJ Bell suggested Man Income , which backs a range of UK financial stocks, mining firms and consumer names, including the house-builder Bellway. Its yield is 5.17 per cent and it has returned 78 per cent over five years. For bargain hunters There’s a style of investing that involves backing out-of-favour companies in the belief that they will recover and go up in value, which can deliver big returns for investors. Some fund managers aim to invest in such companies to save you the job of working out who will be the next big hitter. Marshall said: “Value investing, which typically focuses on companies that appear undervalued relative to their long-term prospects, has struggled to keep up with the growth style [picking stocks that have potential for big gains in value]. But styles move in cycles. After a long period where growth companies have led the way, value-focused businesses look relatively attractive and value investing could have a resurgence. In fact we’ve already seen value begin to outperform growth. “Adding a value-orientated global fund could offer diversification to portfolios that have become heavily tilted towards growth or a small group of large-cap US stocks.” Marshall likes T Rowe Price Global Value Equity , which has returned 63 per cent in three years. A third way Diversification is key to any long-term investor, so alternatives to stocks, such as gold, property or infrastructure, should be considered. Jason Hollands from the wealth manager Evelyn Partners said: “While shares and bonds remain the core building blocks for most stocks and shares Isas, a modest allocation to other asset classes can improve diversification and help to dampen the impact of the inevitable bouts of stock market volatility.” The price of gold and silver has reached dizzy heights recently. All-time highs were recorded in January, at more than $5,400 per oz for gold and $116 for silver. Mark Burridge from the investment firm Baker Steel specialises in natural resources and precious metals. He said: “Opportunities lie across the precious metals mining sector as miners deliver strong margins and rising profitability. We also see opportunities in other metals.” McDermott likes WS Amati Strategic Metals , which invests in global mining and metals companies linked to strategically important commodities such as gold, copper, nickel, silver and lithium. The fund has two managers who have practical experience as well as strong networks in the mining sector. It has returned 120 per cent in three years. The Jupiter Gold and Silver fund and Ninety One Global Gold have been popular among investors at Fidelity, appearing in its top 15 most bought funds in January. The Jupiter fund has returned 195 per cent over five years and Ninety One 227 per cent. Oven-ready options Not everyone wants to spend a lot of time on research. Most Isa platforms offer ready-made portfolios containing a handful of funds that, when bought together, make up a well-balanced portfolio. There will be something for cautious investors at one end of the scale, something for adventurous investors at the other end and some middle-ground options in between. There’s also the option of multi-asset funds. Managers choose where to allocate money in the investment market, and how to spread that money around, but they don’t pick individual bonds or stocks. Instead they invest in other funds, a mix of passive and active. Coatsworth said: “Multi-asset funds are an ideal solution, bringing convenience and variety. Although you don’t have to put all your money into these funds. Many people decide to use them as the core of their Isa and then choose other investments to sit alongside them. It’s important to see what’s under the bonnet, though, so you’re not doubling up with something that’s already in your portfolio.” No time to decide? Even if you can’t decide what to invest in, you should still make the most of your Isa allowance. Coatsworth said: “It’s a use-it-or-lose-it situation. So if you’re not ready to invest, or are still deciding whether to deploy your money, there is nothing wrong with feeding your Isa with cash and making an investment decision another day. Just don’t let that cash sit gathering dust in your account.”