Rolls-Royce Motor Cars has become the latest marque to abandon ambitions to become an all-electric brand by the turn of the decade. When the luxury automotive company announced plans to launch the all-electric Spectre brand in 2022, the then chief executive said Rolls-Royce would end production of its vehicles with V12 engines by the end of 2030. Torsten Muller-Otvos had pledged an immediate target for the Spectre to make up 20 per cent of annual sales, and a goal of 70 per cent of sales in 2028. “By the end of 2030 we will no longer be in the business of producing vehicles with internal combustion engines,” he said. Former boss Torsten Muller-Otvos unveils the Spectre in 2022 ADRIAN DENNIS/AFP via Getty Images His successor, Chris Brownridge, has now scrapped that target, citing the relaxation of regulatory and legislative targets by governments around the world and customer demand. Brownridge declined to comment on how many of Rolls-Royce’s sales are all-electric Spectres, what any new zero-emission targets for the company might be in the future or how many new electric models it will be launching in the future. “For every client that loves an electric vehicle there is one who does not,” said Brownridge. “Some clients do want an electric vehicle, we build what is ordered.” He said Rolls-Royce, owned by the German group BMW and which manufactures 5,600 vehicles a year at its plant in Goodwood, West Sussex, would continue to offer cars with V12 engines. Environment newsletter The latest climate, energy and nature news and analysis, plus reasons to be hopeful. Sign up with one click Brownridge said of the pledge of Muller-Otvos that it was “right at the time” adding: “The legislation has changed. That prediction was based on a different set of circumstances. We recognise some clients would rather have a V12 engine. The V12 is part of our history.” Asked at the time of the launch of the Spectre whether his target was a hostage to fortune, Muller-Otvos said: “Spectre will elevate the global electric revolution.” The announcement came a day after Bentley, the luxury carmaker founded in London in 1919 and owned by Volkswagen Group’s premium Audi division, said that the stalled transition to producing electric cars is likely to see the first zero-emission Bentley come into commission at least two years later than expected.