Given that the Federal Reserve cut its benchmark federal funds rate three times in 2025 and numerous banks responded by reducing their CD and savings interest rates, locking in CDs at present rates—while they remain comparatively attractive—could prove a wise financial decision. At this time, the most generous rate comes from the 9-month CD issued by Newtek Bank , yielding 4.20%. Below is a selection of CDs with terms spanning from 1 month to 10 years, assembled with the help of Curinos, a leading financial services data provider, to ensure you have the info you need to select the best CD option for your situation. Rates current as of March 24, 2026. Fortune publishes a daily CD rates post each weekday that data is available. Check Out Our Daily Rates Reports Discover the highest high-yield savings rates , up to 5% for March 25, 2026. Discover the highest CD rates , up to 4.20% for March 25, 2026. Discover the top CD rates from major banks on March 25, 2026. Discover the current mortgage rates for March 25, 2026. Discover current refi mortgage rates report for March 25, 2026. Discover current ARM mortgage rates report for March 25, 2026. Discover the current price of gold for March 25, 2026. Discover the current price of silver for March 25, 2026. Best CD rates on March 24, 2026 Here are current CD rates as shown on the Curinos report: Highest CD rates by term on March 24, 2026 What the Fortune/Curinos partnership means for your CD strategy To curate this list, Fortune collaborates with Curinos, a firm with extensive expertise in the financial data and market analytics space. Each workday, Curinos supplies us with current CD rates from numerous financial institutions. We analyze this data to bring you the CDs offering the highest rates across a wide range of terms. Pro tip Looking for the best CD to fit your investment needs? See rates from top institutions: – Wells Fargo – Capital One – Chase – Bank of America – Discover Bank – Northern Bank Direct – Ally Bank – Newtek Bank – Popular Direct – Citibank – Sallie Mae Bank How much interest you might earn with a high-APY CD The interest you’ll rack up over the term of your CD hinges on several things: your starting balance, the time period you choose, the APY offered, and the account’s compounding frequency. Below are some hypotheticals to help you understand what you might be able to earn in different scenarios and underline the importance of seeking out competitive CD rates. Example: Earn $1,000+ in interest vs. $300+ in interest The following examples assume a $5,000 starting deposit with interest compounded monthly. Term APY Estimated Interest 1 year 1.64% $82.62 1 year 4.00% $203.71 5 years 1.34% $346.28 5 years 3.80% $1,044.43 1 year APY 1.64% Estimated Interest $82.62 1 year APY 4.00% Estimated Interest $203.71 5 years APY 1.34% Estimated Interest $346.28 5 years APY 3.80% Estimated Interest $1,044.43 As you can see from the numbers above, comparing CD rates across different banks and credit unions for the term you want could potentially net you several hundred dollars more in interest versus settling for a lower-APY CD from the brick-and-mortar bank where you might keep your main checking account. History of CD rates During the 1980s, CD rates reached double-digit levels, quite different from the modest rates we see in 2026. Fast forward to 2019, and five-year CD rates had fallen to just over 3.00%. In the early 2020s, rates climbed above 5.00% as the economy recovered from the Covid-19 crisis. Now, something like five years after that period, it’s not uncommon to see CD rates in the range of 3.00% to 4.00%. Here’s a look at how CD rates for various terms fluctuated over the course of 2025, according to FDIC numbers. Note that on our list, you’ll find typically rates much higher than the average yield for any given term. How the Federal Reserve impacts your CD options At present, the federal funds rate is 3.50%-3.75%. The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) gets together eight times annually, with the upcoming session scheduled for April 28-29. Experienced investors understand that CD yields generally move in tandem with Federal Reserve policy adjustments, especially the fed funds rate. This benchmark rate reflects what banks pay one another for overnight lending. To boil it down, the Fed reduces the federal funds rate to decrease borrowing costs, while raising it makes borrowing costlier. During the Covid-19 outbreak, for instance, the central bank cut this rate to near zero to try to help prevent a recession. Later, as inflation became the primary issue, the Fed raised rates repeatedly. How to choose the best CD account Your first consideration should be how long you’re willing and able to go without touching your money, since early withdrawal from a CD typically incurs penalties. You might find that shorter-term CDs—such as six-month options—carry higher APYs than accounts with longer terms such as 10-year CDs. However, CDs with longer terms offer better protection against rate cuts should the Fed decide to lower its benchmark rate down the road. When looking for the top APY available, remember that online banks can typically offer better rates than financial institutions with physical branches. This advantage is largely due to digital-only banks and credit unions not having the overhead that comes with maintaining branches, allowing them to pass their savings on to customers in the form of better interest rates on deposit products. A few key aspects to keep in mind when evaluating CDs: Term length. Make sure it suits your financial goals and timeline. APY. Conventional logic has long been that you’ll find better returns with longer terms, but recent market conditions have bucked this notion. Deposit requirements. Verify you can deposit enough to satisfy the minimum opening balance. Penalties. Learn what early withdrawal penalty will apply if you need funds prior to maturity. Account protection. Confirm that the bank or credit union holds FDIC or NCUA insurance to safeguard your deposits. CD vs. a high-yield savings account If you’re prepared to accept that savings account rates can fluctuate at your institution’s discretion, whereas CDs lock in a set APY for your term, high-yield savings accounts offer better accessibility. For money you may need quickly, like an emergency fund, a HYSA typically makes more sense. Plus, competitive savings accounts might match or even surpass CD rates. Many high-yield savings accounts provide APYs in the 4.00%-5.00% range as of this writing. Generally, online financial institutions offer the most attractive savings rates—reflecting the same cost advantages that let them offer superior CD yields compared to traditional banks.