In this article, we explore the 10 Tech Stocks to Sell Right Now According to Cathie Wood. Technology stocks have been on the back foot, having experienced a significant sell-off in the first quarter of 2026. The tech-heavy NASDAQ 100 is already down by 4%, and the underperformance raises serious concerns after years of blockbuster gains. The deep pullback comes amid a sharp rotation out of AI-driven software and mega-cap names. In addition, the selloff has come amid fears of AI disrupting software business models, high capital expenditure, and growing concerns over stretched valuations in equity markets. In addition, investors are becoming wary of massive investments in AI and when they are likely to yield significant returns. Global conflicts, from Russia’s invasion of Ukraine to the unraveling U.S. war in Iran, are the latest headwinds threatening to push tech stocks even lower. Amid the slump, strategists at Goldman Sachs expect the market to resume its ascent, as has always been the case in instances of geopolitical risk. “While distribution of potential outcomes is wide, the macro headwinds in our base case outlook generally appear priced, the fundamental engine of earnings growth continues to run, and valuations — while still elevated relative to history — are less demanding than they were a few months ago,” Goldman’s Ben Snider wrote in a note. Ark Investment Management head Cathie Wood has made a name for herself in buying stocks whenever they dip and selling them after strong runs. Wood’s investment strategy focuses on emerging high-tech companies across artificial intelligence, blockchain, biomedical technology, and robotics. That is a playbook that has allowed Woods to emerge as a top shot in the market. Here, the flagship ARK Innovation ETF (ARKK) surged approximately 35%-45% in 2025 as thematic funds like ARK Space & Defense (ARKX) and Autonomous Technology & Robotics (ARKQ) gained nearly 48%. As of the start of 2026, Cathie Wood’s ARK Investment Management held approximately $15.07 billion in estimated stock holdings across its portfolios. It was a significant decline as the portfolio was valued at about $16.8 billion as of the end of the third quarter of 2025. Amid significant returns, Woods has tweaked her investment portfolio, trimming and exiting stakes in some technology stocks. The offload followed significant market gains, resulting in a premium valuation. Our Methodology For this article, we scanned Cathie Wood’s Investment Management’s latest portfolio updated as of the fourth quarter of 2025. We settled on technology stocks whereby Woods has discarded her stakes by more than 15%. We have arranged the list in ascending order of the percentage of stakes discarded. We also highlighted hedge fund activity and investor sentiment for each stock as of Q4 2025. Why are we interested in the stocks that hedge funds pile into? The reason is simple: our research shows we can outperform the market by imitating the top stock picks of the best hedge funds. Our quarterly newsletter’s strategy selects 14 small-cap and large-cap stocks every quarter and has returned 427.7% since May 2014, beating its benchmark by 264 percentage points ( see more details here ). Tech Stocks to Sell Right Now According to Cathie Wood 10. Cellebrite DI Ltd. (NASDAQ: CLBT ) Percentage of stake sold by ARK Investment Management: 15% Number of Hedge Fund Holders: 35 Cellebrite DI Ltd. (NASDAQ:CLBT) is one of the tech stocks to sell right now, according to Cathie Wood. In Q3 2025, ARK Investment Management held 133,518 shares worth $2.47 million in Cellebrite DI Ltd. (NASDAQ:CLBT). However, by Q4, it had reduced its stake by 15% to 114,066 shares valued at $2.06 million. On March 18, Cellebrite DI Ltd. (NASDAQ:CLBT) confirmed the worldwide availability of its artificial intelligence-powered investigative management solution Guardian Investigate. The AI-powered solution is designed to provide a suite of capabilities for daily workflow collaborations across investigative departments and agencies. It also offers a new way for investigators to leverage AI across various case files. The AI-powered solution stands out for its ability to provide instant visibility during mass casualty events or large-scale criminal investigations. That’s because it combines agentic AI, advanced analytics, and centralized investigative management to keep teams organized. Earlier, Cellebrite announced early access to Cellebrite Genesis, a new agent-based AI product designed to transform the way investigations are conducted. The solution offers users instant delivery of transformational agentic AI with precision investigative rigor and public safety-grade guardrails. It is designed to provide an intuitive, conversation-like experience for analyzing mobile phone call details, records, message documents, and video. “Genesis is powered by Cellebrite AI, which is a purpose-built intelligence layer developed from decades of trusted evidence analysis, courtroom-proven results and cumulative experiences,” said Ronen Armon, chief products and technologies officer, Cellebrite. Cellebrite DI Ltd. (NASDAQ:CLBT) is a leading digital intelligence company providing software and hardware tools for law enforcement, government, and enterprise agencies to legally extract, unlock, analyze, and manage data from mobile devices, computers, and cloud sources. Its tools, such as Cellebrite UFED, recover deleted data, bypass passwords, and parse complex encrypted data to accelerate investigations. 9. Tesla, Inc. (NASDAQ: TSLA ) Percentage of stake sold by ARK Investment Management: 19% Number of Hedge Fund Holders: 137 Tesla Inc. (NASDAQ:TSLA) is one of the tech stocks to sell right now, according to Cathie Wood. ARK Investment Management’s Q3 2025 stake in Tesla Inc. (NASDAQ:TSLA) stood at 3.59 million shares worth $1.6 billion, but by Q4 it had pared back 19%, leaving 2.91 million shares valued at $1.31 billion. On March 19, Reuters reported that Tesla Inc. (NASDAQ: TSLA) is in talks to acquire solar equipment worth $2.9 billion from Chinese firms. The company has already held discussions with a Chinese supplier as it looks to purchase equipment for manufacturing solar panels and cells. Reuters reports Tesla has contacted Suzhou Maxwell Technologies, the world’s biggest producer of screen-printing equipment. It is one of the leading suppliers of machinery used to make solar cells. The tech giant has also visited several solar companies in China as it seeks to secure crucial supplies before the autumn. Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk has set out to add 100 gigawatts of solar capacity in the US. The push comes on the heels of the billionaire investor reiterating that solar power could meet all of the US’s electricity needs. The push for solar energy also comes amid growing demand for clean energy to power data centers amid the artificial intelligence boom. Tesla, Inc. (NASDAQ:TSLA) is a sustainable energy company that designs, manufactures, and sells electric vehicles (EVs), energy generation and storage systems, and related services.