Economist Peter Schiff warns that a severe financial meltdown is imminent following a sharp spike in U.S. import and export prices , compounded by massive global oil shocks. Schiff Warns Of 19% Annualized Inflation According to Schiff, the situation is already critical, noting that “February import prices spiked 1.3% while export prices surged 1.5%.” He calculated that these surging numbers are “annualizing to inflation rates of 16.8%–19.6%.” BLS Data Confirms Price Surges Schiff’s stark warning aligns directly with the official U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics summary released on March 25, 2026. The BLS reported that U.S. import prices increased 1.3 percent in February. This represents the largest monthly increase since the index rose 2.9% in March 2022. The BLS noted that higher prices for nonfuel imports and fuel imports drove the increase in February. Simultaneously, prices for U.S. exports advanced 1.5% in February. This marks the largest monthly advance for exports since the index increased 2.7% in May 2022. Oil Shock And Fed Ultimatum The backdrop of geopolitical tensions and an escalating Iran war has brought intense focus to the energy markets. Schiff emphasized the terrifying reality that the alarming February numbers were recorded “before oil rose 50%.” Even within the February data, energy costs were rapidly climbing. Import prices for fuels and lubricants increased 3.8% in February. Within that category, natural gas advanced 24.7%, and prices for imported petroleum and petroleum products increased 2.5%. In response to this mounting pressure, Schiff offered an ultimatum to the central bank. “Unless the Fed raises rates several hundred basis points now,” he cautioned, “inflation will skyrocket.” Markets Fall In 2026 At the last check after Wednesday’s market close, the S&P 500 index tumbled 3.89%, whereas the Nasdaq Composite and Dow Jones declined 5.62% and 4.04%, respectively, year-to-date. On the other hand, the ETF tracking WTI Crude futures, United States Oil Fund LP (NYSE: USO ), has risen 62.59% in the same period. Disclaimer: This content was partially produced with the help of AI tools and was reviewed and published by Benzinga editors. Photo courtesy: Shutterstock