Gold and silver ETFs rose up to 4% on Friday after a two-day decline, tracking a sharp rebound in prices on the MCX following a steep sell-off in the previous sessions. Experts said the uptick appears to be a relief rally, even as the short-term outlook remains bearish, with rising oil prices amid the Middle East conflict adding to inflation concerns. Among the 18 silver ETFs, seven ETFs gained up to 4% on Friday. Another eight ETFs in the category gained up to 3% each. Groww Silver ETF, Mirae Asset Silver ETF, and Angel One Silver ETF went up 2% each. Also Read | HDFC Bank crashes 9% in one day. Which mutual funds have the highest exposure to this stock in February There were 25 gold ETFs in the said period, of which 23 ETFs gained between 1% and 2% on Friday and two remained flat. To navigate today's volatile market, investors should focus on asset allocation and emotional discipline rather than timing a perfect entry. Ensure your emergency fund and insurance are in place before investing, and prioritise quality sectors like banking or IT that show resilience during dips, Abhishek Bhilwaria, BhilwariaMF, AMFI-registered MFD, said. By automating investments and potentially using a step-up SIP to increase contributions annually, investors can harness the power of compounding while ignoring short-term "noise", ultimately building a more robust long-term corpus, Bhilwaria further said. MCX silver futures due May 2026 were up Rs 8,540 or 3.6% at Rs 2,40,000 per kg. Meanwhile, gold futures for April 2026 delivery gained Rs 3,340 or 3% to Rs 1,48,302 per 10 grams. In the international market, gold prices edged higher on Friday but remained on track for a third straight weekly loss, weighed down by a strong dollar and a hawkish stance from the US Federal Reserve that has reduced expectations of near-term rate cuts. Spot gold rose 0.2% to $4,657.50 per ounce as of 0112 GMT, though the metal has declined more than 7% so far this week. Spot silver also saw a marginal uptick, gaining 0.1% to $73 per ounce. Yesterday's sharp correction saw gold drop below $4,850 and silver plunge towards $72–$76 amid a hawkish Fed hold and dollar strength, Anup Bhaiya, Founder, Money Honey Wealth Services, told ETMutualFunds. Also Read | Mutual funds bet big on healthcare, outpace BSE 200 exposure. Should you join in? He further said that for investors, this dip represents a prime accumulation opportunity, as precious metals' long-term safe-haven and hedging roles endure amid geopolitical risks and inflation concerns. On Thursday, silver and gold commodity-based ETFs extended their losses and fell up to 8% after slipping up to 6% in the earlier session, following the US Federal Reserve keeping its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 3.5%–3.75% and maintaining a hawkish stance, signalling reduced urgency for further rate cuts. ( Disclaimer : Recommendations, suggestions, views and opinions given by the experts are their own. These do not represent the views of The Economic Times) If you have any mutual fund queries, message on ET Mutual Funds on Facebook/Twitter. We will get it answered by our panel of experts. Do share your questions on ETMFqueries@timesinternet.in alongwith your age, risk profile, and Twitter handle. Add as a Reliable and Trusted News Source