The event also featured an exhibition showcasing new technologies and solutions in braking systems. The 11th Annual ASIABRAKE Conference & Exhibition, a conference and exhibition focused on braking systems and automotive technologies, recently concluded in Gurugram, bringing together over 350 delegates, 25+ speakers, and 60+ sponsors and exhibitors from across the global automotive ecosystem. The three-day event saw participation from original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), component makers, research institutions and technology firms. Discussions centred on emerging trends such as electrification, sustainability and advancements in braking technologies , particularly in electric and hybrid vehicles. Industry and academic experts delivered keynote sessions and technical presentations, addressing topics including brake system innovation, testing technologies and evolving material trends. Representatives from major automotive players such as Maruti Suzuki India Limited and Toyota Motor Corporation were among those in attendance. “As vehicles evolve, braking systems will continue to play a critical role in ensuring safety, reliability, and performance, and it is imperative for the industry to continuously innovate and collaborate to meet these expectations,” said Kuldip Singh Rathee, Chairman & Managing Director, ASK Automotive Limited. The event also featured an exhibition showcasing new technologies and solutions in braking systems and related components, facilitating business interactions and collaborations within the sector. “It is not just a technical conference, but a space where ideas translate into partnerships and opportunities. The strong international participation this year reflects the increasing relevance of this forum in shaping the future of mobility,” said Aman Rathee, General Chair, ASIABRAKE 2026 . Published On Mar 20, 2026 at 03:36 PM IST Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals. Subscribe to Newsletter to get latest insights & analysis in your inbox. All about ETAuto industry right on your smartphone!