Madhya Pradesh currently has 1,146 EV charging stations out of over 29,000 nationwide. Did you know that there are no rules or regulations governing the setting up of Electric Vehicle Charging Stations (EVCSs) in Madhya Pradesh? This startling revelation has taken on new significance following a massive fire in Indore, suspected to have originated from a short-circuit while charging an electric vehicle hatchback, which claimed eight lives. In light of this, the Union ministry of road transport and highways has clarified that installing EV charging stations is considered a 'de-licensed' activity in Madhya Pradesh, meaning that private players can set up EVCSs freely as per the central government guidelines issued by the Ministry of Power in 2024. According to the Union ministry, "Setting up of a charging station is an unlicensed activity and private players can install Electric Vehicle Charging Stations (EVCSs) as per guidelines issued by union govt in the ministry of power in 2024. The guidelines encourage PPP models for scaling infrastructure." It turns out that in keeping with the Union govt mandate, the Madhya Pradesh Electric Vehicle Policy 2025 also stipulates that setting up of public charging stations (PCS) shall be a de-licensed activity. The guidelines issued by the Union ministry of power in 2024 delves into the infrastructure and power connection for different EV charging stations in commercial and residential areas for private, visitors/public vehicles and the specifications laid down for the purpose. For safety, the guidelines state that all electric vehicle supply equipment shall comply with BIS standards, adding that charging point operators may apply for an electricity connection for their EV charging stations. The commercial building owners can choose the types and number of workplace EV chargers to install based on employee needs, the guidelines state further, adding that group housing societies and residential welfare associations can establish EV charging stations within their premises. They also allow residents to decide the types and number of community EV chargers to be installed. Community stations can be equipped to allow charging for authorised visitor vehicles, while residents can install private EV charging stations in their designated parking spaces, the guidelines further stipulate. Further, according to the norms laid down by the Union ministry of power, the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) will act as the central nodal authority to monitor the implementation of these guidelines and all relevant agencies, including electricity distribution companies (DISCOMs), adding that the central electricity authority (CEA) and state govt agencies were expected to cooperate and provide necessary support to the BEE Indian Standards for EV chargers notified by BIS. The safety requirements for EVs include appropriate cabling and electrical work to ensure safety, as well as adequate fire protection equipment and facilities installed as per relevant Indian standards. Electrical equipment installed in EV charging stations have to comply with Central Electricity Authority regulations - specifically the technical standards for connectivity of distributed generation resources (2013) and safety and electric supply measures (2023), as amended from time to time, the guidelines state further. MP Madhya Pradesh Electric Vehicle Policy 2025 carries definite echoes of the central norms, stating, "Setting up of public charging stations (PCS) shall be a de-licensed activity and any individual/entity is free to set up public charging stations, provided that, such stations meet the technical as well as performance standards and protocols laid down below as well as norms/standards/specifications laid down by ministry of power, central electricity authority, govt of MP from time to time." It adds that the distribution licensee shall provide the electricity connection "as per provisions of the MP electricity supply code 2021, notified by MP electricity regulatory commission and as amended from time to time to any entity/ charge point operator (CPO) seeking to set up a public EV charging station/battery swapping station". Urban development and housing dept is the nodal dept for the implementation of MP electric vehicle policy 2025 or as decided by the state government, while the MP power management company ltd is the state nodal agency for EV charging infrastructure. As per the Centre, there are a total of 29,151 EV charging stations in the country, with MP accounting for just 1,146. Published On Mar 20, 2026 at 12:37 PM IST Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals. Subscribe to Newsletter to get latest insights & analysis in your inbox. All about ETAuto industry right on your smartphone!