Microsoft has gone all-in on AI and its Copilot chatbot, so it's not going to encourage you to ditch it. However, the company has acknowledged that its AI enthusiasm has left some Windows 11 users frustrated, and is pledging to focus on features that matter most to them. That includes a new way to say farewell to Copilot, but only if you’re using a managed device and you have your admin's cooperation. Ever since the tech giant started automatically installing Copilot across Windows 10 and 11 PCs in 2023, Microsoft has allowed users to disable Copilot temporarily. But it’s been impossible to uninstall it completely. Now, with the release of a Windows 11 Insider Preview build on Microsoft’s Developer and Beta Channels, IT administrators can uninstall the AI-powered Copilot digital assistant on managed devices on Enterprise, Pro, and EDU SKUs. How to Remove Copilot for Good The policy, called RemoveMicrosoftCopilotApp, has quite a few caveats. The user must have both Microsoft 365 Copilot and Microsoft Copilot installed on the system, and the Microsoft Copilot app must not have been installed by the user. Another requirement is that the Microsoft Copilot app hasn’t been launched in the past 28 days. As Tom’s Hardware notes , this is actually pretty tough to meet for average users, as Microsoft’s AI assistant has “auto-start on login” turned on by default. This means the user would have had to disable the app in Task Manager’s list of Startup Apps, and somehow avoid accidentally launching the app for the best part of a month. Recommended by Our Editors If you’re in charge of a managed PC and you’d like to remove Copilot, head to the Group Policy Editor, followed by User Configuration > Administrative Templates > Windows AI > Remove Microsoft Copilot App. Some Windows users have obviously been looking forward to this for a while. In March 2025, a rogue update actually removed Microsoft's Copilot assistant from the OS for some users due to a software bug . Ironically, some users liked the unintended consequence, with one saying “finally a good feature” in a Reddit post. Get Our Best Stories! Your Daily Dose of Our Top Tech News Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! About Our Expert Experience I’m a reporter covering weekend news. Before joining PCMag in 2024, I picked up bylines in BBC News, The Guardian, The Times of London, The Daily Beast, Vice, Slate, Fast Company, The Evening Standard, The i, TechRadar, and Decrypt Media. I’ve been a PC gamer since you had to install games from multiple CD-ROMs by hand. As a reporter, I’m passionate about the intersection of tech and human lives. I’ve covered everything from crypto scandals to the art world, as well as conspiracy theories, UK politics, and Russia and foreign affairs. Read Full Bio