Windows is my desktop operating system of choice, but I often feel like Microsoft doesn’t care about it as much as I do. That's hopefully starting to change, as the company now says it’s listening to feedback like mine . Pavan Davuluri, Microsoft’s president for Windows and devices, recently announced major upcoming changes that, according to a separate Microsoft spokesperson, are just “the starting point of a significant effort underway to raise the bar on Windows quality.” I’m cautiously optimistic. I want to believe Windows can be better, and it sounds like Microsoft is acknowledging the many complaints it has ignored for years. But this isn’t the first time the company has committed to refocusing on what PC users actually want from Windows. Some Fixes Are Coming…But Major Complaints Remain Microsoft's plans to improve Windows touch on almost every common complaint—but not all of them. Its announcement blog post leads with a promise to finally let you move Windows 11’s taskbar , a feature that vanished with the shift to Windows 10. This has been one of the top requests for years, but Microsoft has refused to add it until now. It’s the most notable sign Microsoft is taking a different approach to feedback. Beyond that, Microsoft is fixing “unnecessary Copilot entry points,” removing AI features from Notepad, Photos, and Widgets. Finally, the company says it will give you more control over Windows Updates, make File Explorer more reliable, turn Widgets into a less annoying experience, and more. Windows 11 will soon let you move your PC's taskbar to the top, left, or bottom edges of the screen (Credit: Microsoft) However, the blog post doesn't address other common complaints, such as browser and search engine choice. On Windows 11, the Start menu’s search feature always opens Microsoft Edge and searches with Bing . It simply ignores your default browser choice and search engine— except in Europe . Microsoft did not comment specifically on my question about browser choice. There's no mention of making Microsoft accounts less annoying, either. Windows 11 all but forces you to sign in with a Microsoft account when you set up a new PC, and Microsoft has steadily been getting rid of workarounds . Microsoft’s Scott Hanselman says he’s working on eliminating the Microsoft account requirement, so perhaps this will change. AI isn’t going anywhere, either. Microsoft claims it will be “more intentional about how and where Copilot integrates across Windows,” but that doesn't mean you won't see it anywhere. If I take Microsoft at its word, it wants to make Windows more customizable, stable, and performant. But the problems it has yet to address are telling. Until Windows makes those changes, I find it difficult to believe Microsoft genuinely wants to put users first. Get Our Best Stories! Your Daily Dose of Our Top Tech News Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! Windows' Reputation Is Slipping—and Microsoft Knows It When I asked my Microsoft contact why the company decided to make these changes now, I didn’t get an answer—just a statement about the company's intention to continue listening to user feedback and keep improving Windows. So, I put on my analyst hat. Windows 11 is successful—Microsoft says it has a billion users . But much of the mood around Windows 11 is negative. The focus on Copilot and controversial features like Windows Recall hasn’t helped its public image. I’ve heard countless complaints about ads, AI features, Windows Update problems, and slow performance in the File Explorer app over the last few years. Microsoft has released some buggy Windows patches lately , too. Apple's MacBook Neo gives Windows laptops serious competition at $599 (Credit: Joseph Maldonado) More importantly, Microsoft faces renewed competition from all sides. At a time when memory shortages are making PCs more expensive, Apple just released the $599 MacBook Neo to compete with budget-to-midrange Windows laptops. The MacBook Neo performs admirably with 8GB of RAM, but I wouldn’t recommend you buy a Windows machine with the same amount of memory . Meanwhile, Google is ramping up desktop OS competition with its forthcoming Aluminium OS that fuses Android with ChromeOS . Valve, after success with the Linux-powered Steam Deck , is making a push into the living room with the Steam Machine . Recommended by Our Editors History Suggests Skepticism Is Warranted Back in 2015, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella famously said Microsoft wanted to move people from needing Windows to choosing and loving Windows. But the opposite has happened over the ensuing decade. The public opinion of Windows arguably deteriorated, and it became an operating system that many people just don’t trust . Although Microsoft didn’t use these words, the tone of Microsoft’s latest blog post is clear: “We know we messed up.” Windows seemingly goes through a perpetual cycle of improvements and setbacks. Windows 7 repaired Windows Vista’s tarnished image by focusing on performance and user feedback. Then, Microsoft released Windows 8, which many people hated. Microsoft heard the complaints and released Windows 10, which many loved. But that release was also the origin of so many of the problems in Windows 11 today. As a reminder, Windows 10 was the version that came with Candy Crush Saga in the Start menu . Windows 11's Start menu will still push Microsoft Edge and Bing for web searches (Credit: Microsoft/PCMag) I'm fairly confident that the company will deliver some real changes at this juncture, but how will it approach Windows a few years from now? Based on its track record, I'm concerned Microsoft will lose focus and restart this whole cycle again. Big Promises, Tight Timeline: Can Microsoft Follow Through? Microsoft says all the fixes it announced were “initial changes” that will appear in Windows Insider builds in March and April of 2026. You won’t have to wait until Windows 12 for them. That’s a lot of changes in an extremely aggressive time frame! The company told me it would have more to share as these changes roll out, too. I’ll be running those Insider builds and will keep a close eye on everything. I want Windows to be better, and I’m hopeful Microsoft will make a real dent in some long-lasting problems. But the company's announcement also feels like an awfully convenient PR move right now. With pressure from Apple, Google, and even Valve this year, Microsoft needs all the help it can get in convincing people to stick with Windows. It can start by following through with its intentions to take everyday PC users' needs seriously. About Our Expert Chris Hoffman Senior Writer Experience I've been writing about technology for more than 15 years and using it in earnest for over twice as long. As a member of PCMag's software team, I focus on Windows coverage, but also write about other key desktop operating systems and system apps. (I used Windows 3.1 upon its release and have followed every subsequent release closely). Prior to joining PCMag, I wrote for How-To Geek starting in 2011, and my articles amassed over a billion page views. I went on to run the publication as editor-in-chief for four and a half years. I have also contributed to Computerworld, Fast Company, PCWorld, Reader's Digest, The New York Times, and many other outlets about everything from AI to PC hardware to Windows. I founded and ran my own direct-to-reader Windows-focused newsletters, Windows Intelligence and The Windows ReadMe, working in partnership with Thurrott.com. Read Full Bio