The thing with big sales events is, they never last. But don't fret because right now, you've got precisely one afternoon/evening left to snap up a deal! • View the full Amazon Spring Deal Days sale And the best snap up now, no-brainer deal I've seen as TechRadar's audio editor? That would be the excellent, five-star, June 2025-issue stemmed earbuds from Cambridge. They're excellent, they're barely eight months old and they sound so good for this money, it shouldn't be allowed. They're called the Melomania A100 and right now, their £119 asking fee has been utterly slashed to just £78.99 at Amazon . What I'm saying is, audiophiles on a tight budget need these. You won't regret it; honestly, you have my word. If you've wanted to dip into affordable wireless listening but don't want to spend loads or sacrifice too much sound quality, this is the way. Not looking for earbuds but do want to sniff out a last-minute Spring Deal Days saving? That's OK, we know time is of the essence — head to our Amazon Spring Deal Days live hub for all the best last-minute deals. Today's best cheap audiophile-grade earbuds deal Our glowing, five-star Cambridge Audio Melomania A100 earbuds review reads thus, as a verdict: "It’s not every day that a product priced to compete squarely in the mainstream arrives with so few apparent compromises — but today’s that day and the Cambridge Audio Melomania A100 is that product. In every respect (build quality, specification and, especially, performance) these earbuds outperform their asking price to a remarkable degree. Highly recommended." When you consider that the aforementioned asking price has now dropped to just £78.99 (from a £119 RRP) you can see why I'm trying so hard not to let these buds pass you by. Yes, they're fairly subdued in terms of looks; positively demure, even. But the sound quality and stellar battery life — you get up to 11 hours from the buds, or 29 from the case, which beats almost any rival you can think of including those ice-white options — plus the effective noise cancellation make the A100 so easy to recommend. You're also getting high specification (Bluetooth 5.4 with LDAC and aptX Lossless codec compatibility, Class AB amplification, 10mm Neodymium dynamic drivers) that you’d be glad to see on a product costing three times as much. Did I mention the slick companion app, ergonomic secure fit, and the six-mic array for solid call-handling as well as cocoon-like ANC? I'm sure you get it now — for £78.99, I love these earbuds. While I'm here, I'll also mention the Nothing Ear (a) which are even cheaper (see the deal below). However, if sound quality really is your top priority and you've got the money for the slightly more expensive set, the Cambridge Melomania A100 are still the buds I'll nudge you towards… An even cheaper Spring Deal Days last-minute earbuds deal… More of today's best Amazon Spring Deal Days deals