Refresh 2026-03-17T00:23:05.229Z Get a premium shave for 38% off (Image credit: Philips) There are shavers and there are shavers. Sure, the really good (and smart) ones cost a pretty penny, but that's where a sale event comes in! You can pick up premium shaver for a significant price drop. Case in point: the Philips Series 9000 Prestige wet & dry shaver that usually retails for over the AU$700 mark. It's been as cheap as AU$319.05 before, but I think this offer is still worth considering at this time of year. This wireless shaver has precision self-sharpening blades that perform up to 165,000 cutting actions per minute, so you can get the closest shave possible. And it shouldn't matter if you've let your beard grow out either — Philips says the onboard sensors will automatically adjust cutting power so you won't feel a thing. It also promises not to damage the skin while doing so. Its flexible head automatically adjusts to the contours of your face for a smooth finish or, you can just use the beard styler instead to tame the mane. Use it without a gel or foam, or with — your choice. Philips Series 9000 Prestige shaver: was AU$799 now AU$495 on Amazon 2026-03-16T23:00:57.295Z Deals under AU$25 There's plenty of stuff that doesn't cost a lot. Amazon has it's own section of Deals Under AU$25 that you can browse through, but don't expect a lot of tech. You can, however, stock up on things like toilet paper, laundry detergent, dishwashing tablets and liquid, some beauty products, pet food and pantry essentials. There's so much listed on that page that it's a good thing you can filter down to specific categories via the options in the left sidebar. Take a gander, you might actually find a few gems. Browse all Amazon deals under AU$25 2026-03-16T21:29:56.220Z Wake up and smell the savings with this Breville deal (Image credit: Future) The Breville the Barista Express Impress has been able to claim being one of the best coffee machines on the market for quite some time now, offering a great opportunity to bring cafe-quality coffee to your home kitchen. The high-end features in this fantastic machine start with its grinder, benefiting from a generous hopper, ample grind-size settings and adjustable grind amount letting you set-and-forget for perfect dosage at the push of a button. There are 25 grind settings to choose from, plus built-in tamping for consistent results. If you’re totally new to customising your cuppa joe, the Barista Express Impress is on hand to offer advice via its easy-to-read LED display. When you’re waking up bleary-eyed and caffeine deficient in the mornings, that ease is crucial. Still requiring a bit more hands-on attention than some other coffee machines on the market, the Barista Express Impress makes it as easy as possible and well worth the small amount of effort for the quality coffee it spits out as your end result. Now all that’s left to do is perfect your milk art… or just embrace the abstract blob. Breville the Barista Express Impress: was AU$1,199 now AU$828 on Amazon 2026-03-16T20:25:04.012Z How about a freebie to start off? (Image credit: Future) If you're a music lover, this one not to be missed. Coinciding with its Big Smile Sale, Amazon is offering three months of Music Unlimited absolutely free! You'll need to be a new subscriber though — if you've used this streaming service before, this is a no go for you. This subscription gives you access to millions of songs, all streaming ad free and keeping you tapping your toes for hours to come. Amazon Music Unlimited: three months free , then AU$13.99/m 2026-03-16T08:10:29.012Z Are you a Prime member yet? (Image credit: Shutterstock / Ascannio) If there's one thing you need to do to take full advantage of any major Amazon sale is to become a Prime member. While I think many Aussies already are, some of you might still be wondering what it means to be a Prime member, what you're actually paying for and if shelling out a monthly or annual sum is actually worth it. In short, if you are a regular Amazon shopper, I think it's worth signing up for it. Your AU$9.99 monthly fee (or AU$79 annually) gets you free and expedited shipping on thousands of products without needing to fulfil a minimum spend. That fee also gets you free access to Prime Video (which does have some excellent shows and movies), along with Prime Reading and Prime Gaming. Just the first one more than makes up for the investment you're making in my opinion. As a Prime member, you also now get two years of free DoorDash deliveries. While there are generally no Prime-exclusive deals right now for Big Smile Sale, there are the occasional coupons or lightning deals that won't explicitly say it's for Prime members, but will only appear if you're signed in with a paid account. You can find out more about the subscription service in my dedicated guide to what is Amazon Prime in Australia . It's also worth noting that if you've never tried this service before, signing up now will get you a 30-day free trial that more than covers the sale. If you don't want to pay at all, you can cancel as soon as the sale finishes. Keep in mind that if you use the same email later to sign up again, you will not get that free trial later even if you didn't use all 30 days. If you're interested in getting your delivery from Amazon expedited this sale season, you can hit one of the buttons below to sign up. 2026-03-16T07:00:13.863Z Listen to this AirPods 4 deal (Image credit: Future) If you're an iPhone owner and you're looking for the perfect headphone companion, give the AirPods Pro 4 an audition. You can get the standard version or the one with active noise cancellation, although the latter will cost you more and only gets a 14% discount via the same listing. Not as much as the brand new AirPods Pro 3 at a discounted price of AU$379 ! This offer is about the former – the non-ANC version – as they're down to AU$178. That's only a 18% discount and AU$0.60 cheaper than what it was during October's Prime Day sale and during Black Friday. Sadly, though, that's still not the cheapest price, which was AU$166 earlier this year. I'd say this is still good value for AirPods. While you'll miss out on ANC, you'll get some passive noise isolation, but the same excellent sound quality our tester talks about in our Apple AirPods 4 with Active Noise Cancellation review . They also support Spatial Audio, which works well not just for music, but for movies as well. Ultimately, they're a fantastic set of Apple in-ear buds at this price. Apple AirPods 4: was AU$219 now AU$178 on Amazon 2026-03-16T05:42:02.760Z Colour me happy: Kindle Colorsoft discounted again (Image credit: Future) I review ereaders for a living and while I wouldn't recommend a colour ereader to most readers, those who read more comics or graphic novels would actually put it to good use. If you're one of them, the Kindle Colorsoft is back to its lowest price of AU$309 again for the base 16GB model. The best thing about the Colorsoft is that it's the only colour ereader I've seen that has a separate Vivid mode that enhances the colours displayed and, unlike other E Ink Kaleido 3 devices like the Kobo Libra Colour and Boox Go Color 7 Gen II , you get what it promises – slightly more saturated hues. Again, keep in mind this is an E Ink display, so don't expect it to match an iPad or your phone, but it sure displays nice colours, which is great for comic fans. Kindle Colorsoft (16GB): was AU$399 now AU$309 on Amazon 2026-03-16T04:25:11.460Z More sales to shop (Image credit: Shutterstock / Andrey_Popov) Did you know that this is a great time to be an online shopper? Amazon's Big Smile Sale isn't the only one to shop right now, with several other retailers and brands offering a fair few discounts at the same time. I've listed a few of my top sales to shop this week, but it currently doesn't include Afterpay Day, which kicks off later this week. 2026-03-16T03:35:08.069Z This Dyson is slim in size and price (Image credit: TechRadar) I can't remember the last time I saw the Dyson V12 Detect Slim pop up as a deal... or even as a standalone product. I honestly thought it had been discontinued, but I'm glad to see that it's still available — and at a fantastic price too! I would never recommend this cordless vacuum for its full price, it's a little long in the tooth for that. However, for AU$599, you're getting a compact machine that's perfect for small homes and nearly as powerful as the V15 series. You'll get the Fluffy Optic and the Digital Motorbar for different floor types, plus three other attachments for cleaning up other surfaces. Honestly, I don't know why the V12 has previously been elusive but Amazon's Big Smile Sale is living up to it's name — it sure is making me smile. Psst, that photo of the V12 is in my apar Dyson V12 Detect Slim: was AU$1,349 now AU$599 on Amazon 2026-03-16T02:21:41.607Z The mouse I use — now 48% off (Image credit: Logitech) I have the white (or what's labelled as grey) Logitech Lift and, after a few years of daily use, it's looking a little worse for wear. I'm sorely tempted to swap it out for this Graphite version instead, and it's cheaper than I've every seen it before. The previous low price was AU$69, which makes the current 48% discount an all-time low on this specific model, so don't miss out. I will have to note that it's designed for smaller hands like mine, so people with large mitts might not like its ergonomics — your little finger is likely to drag along your desk. Otherwise, it's an ergonomic mouse I can heartily recommend. Logitech Lift: was AU$129 now AU$67.15 on Amazon 2026-03-16T01:46:28.832Z Hello, Australia! And welcome to TechRadar's live coverage of Amazon's first big sale of the year – the Big Smile Sale. We've had a few Big Smile Sales in Australia perviously, so we know a thing or two about it. It's typically held in March — though this year the start date of Monday, March 16 is a touch earlier than 2025. It's always been a week-long sale, so nothing new in the fact that you have until Sunday, March 22 to shop till you drop (figuratively speaking, we hope). Don't expect record-low prices on Amazon this time round, though — that's typically reserved for the Amazon Prime Day sale and the Amazon Black Friday sale — but you'll typically see about 20% to 30% off a range of items. There will be deeper discounts on select items, but it will be the rare offer that comes in at an all-time low. If there are any, be assured that my team and I will be right on it, bringing you the best and latest discount on tech as soon as we spot them. I've covered every single Amazon sale since the retailer launched its Australian site in December 2017, so I know how spot a good Amazon deal. Moreover, my team has expertise in different categories of tech, so anything we list on this page will be worth your attention. So stick with us as we bring you a plethora of discounted hot tech. You must confirm your public display name before commenting Please logout and then login again, you will then be prompted to enter your display name. Logout