Meta has confirmed it will discontinue a key privacy feature on Instagram, ending support for end-to-end encrypted (E2EE) messaging on the platform in 2026. The move will affect direct messages and calls that currently rely on encryption to prevent third parties—including Meta —from accessing user communications . The tech giant updated its official support documentation to inform users that, “end-to-end encrypted messaging on Instagram will no longer be supported after May 8, 2026." Instagram users with affected conversations will receive in- app notifications with instructions. Some may need to update the app to access download tools. "Very few people were opting in to end-to-end encrypted messaging in DMs, so we're removing this option from Instagram in the coming months," a spokesperson for the company told Newsweek in an email. "Anyone who wants to keep messaging with end-to-end encryption can easily do that on WhatsApp.” Why it Matters Encrypted messaging has long been promoted as a way to protect user data from hackers , surveillance and even the platforms themselves. At the same time, some concerns have been raised that end-to-end encryption can limit the ability to detect harmful activity, including child exploitation . What to Know End-to-end encryption works by assigning unique keys to devices in a conversation, which keeps messages locked during transmission and can only be unlocked by authorized participants. Meta previously emphasized that, “no one can read your messages or hear your calls except the people who have these special keys—not even Meta.” With the feature’s removal, those protections will no longer apply to Instagram direct messages after the May 2026 deadline. Users who want to retain copies of their encrypted conversations must download them before support ends. Encrypted messaging will still be available on WhatsApp , another Meta-owned platform. Meta first introduced end-to-end encryption on Instagram in 2023, following similar rollouts on Messenger and WhatsApp. What People Are Saying Critics on Reddit's cybersecurity forum were less than impressed. As one remarked, "Wow, so in a world where we are worried about 'the children ,' we are making apps less safe for everyone?" Elsewhere, "Always leave it up to Facebook /Meta to push the bar lower when it comes to selling people’s data, or when comes to respecting the privacy of people," another commentator declared. Finally, one individual was deeply concerned: "This is a disaster . I run a business through my Instagram and I have a lot of client data and sensitive information , will Meta get access to all of it? "I'm panicking right now." What's Next Users affected by the change are expected to receive ongoing notifications ahead of the May 2026 deadline, with instructions on how to preserve their data. Newsweek has reached out to Meta for comment by email.