NEW DELHI: Union Minister for Electronics and IT Ashwini Vaishnaw said the electronics, mobile manufacturing and semiconductor industries in India have not felt the impact of the West Asia conflict . “I have asked practically every industry association in the electronics sector , and each one of them has said, so far, there is no impact,” Vaishnaw said during a press conference here, adding that manufacturers in the semiconductor, passive components, mobile manufacturing , and IT hardware sectors have not been affected yet. “It is an evolving situation, as we all know. So we will continuously keep interacting with the industry and see if there is any stress,” the minister said. “We all believe that this war will be short-term.” The ongoing conflict, involving the USA, Israel, Iran, and regional governments, has sent shockwaves of uncertainty across industries. The primary friction points centered on the Red Sea and the Strait of Hormuz further threaten critical maritime trade routes and the supply of high-purity raw materials such as helium, bromine, and industrial chemicals and gases, along with fuels. Ahmad Shehab, a research analyst at Counterpoint Research , said in a blog earlier in March that logistics remains a key risk factor for the smartphone industry , resulting from the conflict, considering a majority of global handset shipments are transported by air. “Despite higher costs compared to sea freight, air transport is preferred due to the high value and short ‘shelf-life’ of smartphones,” Shehab had said. “A prolonged Middle East crisis could therefore impact freight routes, operating costs and inventory planning across global smartphone markets.” However, Counterpoint has scaled down its forecast for India smartphone shipments for 2026 to 139 million units from 142 million projected earlier this year, while Omdia revised its numbers to 142-145 million from 148 million, with analysts cautioning that the developing situation might necessitate further downward revisions in the next quarter. Published On Mar 30, 2026 at 02:02 PM IST Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals. Subscribe to Newsletter to get latest insights & analysis in your inbox. All about ETTelecom industry right on your smartphone!