Anza Zafran Utama, a nine-year-old boy in the Indonesian city of Bogor, is either a dinosaur or a shooter when he plays Roblox on his smartphone. Zafran and his friends regularly hang out on Roblox, the U.S. platform where children can build immersive 3-D worlds and communities and play different characters. From Saturday, under-16s are set to be restricted from using the platform under new government rules, after officials designated it high-risk. "I like to joke around with my friends there," Zafran said of Roblox. His mother, Andina Dwi, said he spends as long as four hours on the platform after school, getting up only to charge his phone. "When he plays Roblox he forgets time," said Andina, 32, who supports the controls. Indonesia's social media ‌curbs, which the government says ⁠are intended ⁠to reduce the risk of cyberbullying and addiction, follow a ban in Australia last year over concerns about social media's potential harms to young people's mental health. In the United States, where social media companies face thousands of lawsuits over their platform designs, a court on Thursday found Meta and Alphabet's YouTube created addictive products that caused harm to young people. Indonesia has also designated platforms including X, Meta's Facebook and Instagram, YouTube, and TikTok, owned by China's ByteDance, as high-risk. 'Technical guidance lacking' As Saturday approaches, neither parents nor children have much idea what will happen - whether all under-16 users will find their accounts automatically deactivated, or whether there will be a new verification process. "The policy is all concepts, but the technical guidance is still lacking," said Ika Idris, a social media expert at Monash University who has children, aged 11 and 16, who use Roblox. Meutya Hafid, ⁠Indonesia's communications and ‌digital minister, said this month the deactivation of current accounts of under-16s would take place gradually from Saturday. Late on Friday, Meutya told reporters X and TikTok would start deactivating accounts on Saturday, and Roblox would allow users under-13s only to play offline. She did not say whether these platforms were ⁠no longer considered high-risk and gave no details of the deactivation. High-risk platforms must adjust their minimum age and deactivate accounts of underage users, and independently determine the risks they pose, according to a ministerial decree published this week. Platforms are determined high-risk if they fulfil criteria such as the possibility of talking to strangers, addictive qualities and psychological risks, the ministry said. Platforms take steps to comply Roblox will introduce content and communications controls for players under 16 in Indonesia to comply with the country's new social media regulations, the company said this week, but gave no details of the controls. Berni Moestafa, Meta's head of public policy, Indonesia and Philippines, said the company was committed to protecting teens and had launched "Teen Accounts" for Instagram and Facebook in Indonesia, adding those accounts have built-in protections that address parents' concerns of who they talk to online, how they spend their time and what content they see. TikTok said it was ‌committed to complying with the regulation, suspends accounts identified as non-compliant to its minimum age rules and has over 50 preset privacy and safety features. "As we move forward, we will take the necessary steps in line with regulatory expectations, while continuing to strengthen our safeguards," the company said. X said Indonesia's minimum age requirement "prevents age-restricted social media platforms, including X, ⁠from letting people under 16 create or keep an account. It's not our choice - it's what Indonesian law requires." Google said on Friday it had placed safeguards for children and appreciated Indonesia's "risk-based self assessment approach which incentivises built-in protections and age-appropriate experiences for youth, as opposed to a blanket ban." Removing accounts of under-16s on YouTube would create a "knowledge divide" in a country of 280 million people, Google said. 'I don't watch anything strange' Indonesia announced penalties last year for non-compliance with the protections, including sanctions and, in the worst cases, a block on the platform. But experts remain sceptical about the measures' implementation. "There are concerns this won't be effective," said Wahyudi Djafar, tech analyst and director of think-tank Catalyst Policy Works, adding that children can still bypass the restrictions. "The implementation is complicated." Internet penetration in Indonesia reached 80.66% in 2025, according to a survey by the Indonesia Internet Service Providers' Association. The survey showed it was 87.8% among "Gen Z" users aged 13 to 28. "I don't watch anything strange ... just normal things," said 10-year-old Andaru Brahma Satria, about potentially losing access to YouTube. "I feel just a little bit sad."