NEW DELHI: Union Minister for Electronics and IT, Ashwini Vaishnaw , said on Monday that out of the 75 projects approved under the Electronics Component Manufacturing Scheme (ECMS), 28 have already broken ground and commenced construction. “Another major landmark today is that out of the 75 project approvals, by now 28 projects have started construction already,” Vaishnaw said. Terming it a major progress, he stated that the final, finished products will serve domestic demands and can also be exported to global markets. Combined, the projects will generate direct, high-quality jobs for 65,000 individuals, he said. India is also making significant strides in achieving self-sufficiency for electronic components. The country is now set to meet 100% of its domestic demand for both laminates and relay manufacturing, transitioning into a global supplier for these segments. Furthermore, lithium-ion cells for digital applications will see a major jump, covering 61% of domestic needs compared to 35% last year. The move toward localisation is also evident in critical high-volume parts. India will now fulfill 60% of its demand for capacitors and 50% of the massive printed circuit board (PCB) market. Other notable milestones include meeting 44% of the demand for metallised films, 33% for connectors, and 25% for rare earth magnets. While some sectors are in their early stages, the groundwork is laid for a long-term reduction in import dependence. Production for inductors and surface-mount device (SMD) passives will now meet 5% and 2% of domestic demand, respectively. “So, a very methodical, step-by-step progress is happening where we can now become exporters, and reduce our imports significantly,” Vaishnaw said. “In the semiconductor sector , too, there is huge progress.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to inaugurate the Kaynes Semicon plant at Sanand GIDC, Ahmedabad, on Tuesday (March 31), marking the commencement of commercial production at the facility. Commercial production will start with the manufacturing of advanced Intelligent Power Modules (IPMs), which are critical components for automotive and industrial applications requiring compact, efficient, and reliable power switching systems. Each module comprises 17 chips and will be supplied to California-based Alpha and Omega Semiconductor (AOS). When all phases of the plant are completed, it will have the capacity to produce 6.33 million units per day. A few weeks ago, PM Modi had also inaugurated the US-based Micron Technology’s ATMP (Assembly, Test, Marking, and Packaging) facility in Sanand. Published On Mar 30, 2026 at 02:29 PM IST Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals. Subscribe to Newsletter to get latest insights & analysis in your inbox. All about ETTelecom industry right on your smartphone!