Artificial intelligence media agency for business-to-business Multiply Technology Inc. today launched with $9.5 million in funding to introduce what it calls “self-learning advertising.” The platform uses AI to analyze internal company data, continuously enhancing itself and avoiding what the company refers to as “decaying ads.” The longer static advertisements remain in the view of an audience, the less likely they are to grab attention. Mayfield led the round, with participation from Sorenson Capital, Instacart co-founder Max Mullen, Google LLC’s head of Gemini, and Google Labs head Josh Woodward, plus executives from HubSpot Inc., Braze Inc. and Brex Inc., among others. Multiply was founded by Chief Executive Matt Jayson (pictured, left), formerly at Google and AI-powered finance firm Brex, and Chief Technology Officer Ashish Warty (right), former senior vice president of engineering at HackerOne Inc. and engineering leader at Dropbox Inc. The company said it uses a Customer Insights AI Agent to extract actual customer language and other data to personalize ads. By using transcripts, customer relations management logs, ad platform performance, audience metrics and other concrete data, the AI system develops new creative messaging aligned with why buyers choose the company over competitors. Fitting to the company’s name, Multiply attempts hundreds of structured experiments to refine audiences, copy and creative design, so campaigns can improve every week. “Together, these systems allow Multiply to iterate faster than any traditional agency model,” said Warty. He stressed that the agents do not run in a vacuum. “Brand safety is paramount,” Warty added. Every campaign requires human sign-off by management and maintains compliance with design, theme and intent. The company launched on Google and LinkedIn ads, but its infrastructure is designed to work with ChatGPT’s emerging AI-driven ad platforms. Multiply is already preparing customers for OpenAI Group PBC’s advertising revolution that will bring ads into chatbot outputs. OpenAI began testing ads in February on its ChatGPT chatbot service in the United States for some users — initially affecting logged-in adults using the company’s free and Go tiers. The initial buy-in for participating advertisers was priced at least $200,000. OpenAI rival Anthropic PBC quickly fired back that it will never put advertisements on its Claude platform, while Google LLC remains open to the possibility on its Gemini chatbot service. With an eye to the future, the company said it intends to expand into a full omni-channel ad buyer for B2B companies. It will allow businesses to launch and optimize advertising across all major platforms on a single system. Its roadmap includes daily creative changes, AI-budget allocation across ad channels and a unified way to understand where the audience is coming from — social media posts, email, search and soon AI chatbots. Images: Multiply Technology A message from John Furrier, co-founder of SiliconANGLE: Support our mission to keep content open and free by engaging with theCUBE community. Join theCUBE’s Alumni Trust Network , where technology leaders connect, share intelligence and create opportunities. 15M+ viewers of theCUBE videos , powering conversations across AI, cloud, cybersecurity and more 11.4k+ theCUBE alumni — Connect with more than 11,400 tech and business leaders shaping the future through a unique trusted-based network. About SiliconANGLE Media SiliconANGLE Media is a recognized leader in digital media innovation, uniting breakthrough technology, strategic insights and real-time audience engagement. As the parent company of SiliconANGLE , theCUBE Network , theCUBE Research , CUBE365 , theCUBE AI and theCUBE SuperStudios — with flagship locations in Silicon Valley and the New York Stock Exchange — SiliconANGLE Media operates at the intersection of media, technology and AI. Founded by tech visionaries John Furrier and Dave Vellante, SiliconANGLE Media has built a dynamic ecosystem of industry-leading digital media brands that reach 15+ million elite tech professionals. Our new proprietary theCUBE AI Video Cloud is breaking ground in audience interaction, leveraging theCUBEai.com neural network to help technology companies make data-driven decisions and stay at the forefront of industry conversations.