Hong Kong’s medical insurance sector is walking something of a tightrope of late, buffeted by an ageing population and increasing demands from international markets. Finding a healthy balance will be vital for the city’s growth as a global financial hub. It is good that the Insurance Authority has pledged to undertake an in-depth analysis this year of medical insurance costs and available products, as well as review regulations to draw more international life insurance buyers. Clement Lau Chung-kin, the authority’s executive director of policy and legislation, said the goal was increased transparency so insurance products become “more accessible and affordable”. Insurance premiums have soared sharply as medical costs rise at a rate of about 9 per cent a year. High-end coverage has jumped nearly 30 per cent. The projected overall average premium per person was expected to surpass HK$11,000 (US$1,400) this year, nearly 15 per cent more than in the second quarter of 2025. Lau said data from a comprehensive assessment could help consumers make better choices. Insurance companies might also introduce more products as competition increases and prices decrease. By 2047, more than a third of the city’s population will be over age 65 , a demographic shift expected to pile pressure on the city’s healthcare system and demand for medical insurance. A transparent, competitive and affordable insurance market will be needed to supplement public care. The planned review could also help open markets to international buyers, including those from Southeast Asia and the Middle East. While mainland Chinese visitors to the city are a core demographic, the share of policies sold to them has dipped. Proposed regulatory reforms, including those allowing overseas Chinese to purchase policies without in-person visits, are ways to remove obstacles to achieving regional pre-eminence in the sector. The authority’s review is timely. Hopefully, it will open doors to a transparent, digitally accessible and internationally focused insurance market that will in turn improve the prognosis for the stability of the city’s financial infrastructure.