AvaloniaUI has previewed MAUI support for Linux and WebAssembly browser applications — platforms Microsoft's own cross-platform .NET framework lacks — but low adoption and persistent bugs are likely to constrain uptake. The Avalonia team has previewed a backend for MAUI (multi-platform app UI) using .NET 11 (itself in preview), enabling developers to add Linux and WebAssembly targets to their cross-platform GUI (graphical user interface) applications using the framework. The potential impact on MAUI is greater than it first appears. Cross-platform frameworks take one of two approaches to how they render controls such as buttons and switches, either calling native platform APIs to display the controls built into the operating system, or using custom drawing to provide their own versions of those controls. The native approach ensures a correct look and feel for each platform, while the custom-drawn method provides more cross-platform consistency. MAUI uses native APIs whereas Avalonia does custom drawing, but what the Avalonia team has done is to enable the use of Avalonia controls either alongside or in place of the MAUI controls. MAUI controls rendered in the browser via Avalonia and WebAssembly Avalonia is an open source GUI framework for .NET inspired by WPF (Windows Presentation Foundation). Developer Steven Kirk created it in 2013, when WPF appeared abandoned. Avalonia offered both an actively developed framework for developers with WPF skills and applications, and a way to port those applications to macOS and Linux. Community interest in Avalonia has made it one of the most active .NET open source projects, and it now targets iOS, Android, and WebAssembly, as well as macOS and Windows. The new preview is based on .NET 11, which is expected to be generally available in November, meaning that Avalonia MAUI will remain in preview until then. According to software engineer Tim Miller, "there are still many areas to address," including a version of the Microsoft MAUI APIs for essential platform features such as storage and media access. Another issue is that Avalonia does not yet support Wayland, the modern display system for Linux, relying on X11 or the XWayland compatibility layer. It is also not yet possible to host Avalonia controls within WinUI, the GUI API targeted by MAUI when running on Windows. According to Miller, the Avalonia MAUI project has brought direct benefits to Avalonia itself, with the creation of new controls and APIs for the forthcoming Avalonia 12 that "close the gap between the control set available in .NET MAUI and Avalonia." The bigger problem with this project is that MAUI has limited take-up, with developers struggling with bugs and slow updates, while Microsoft itself appears hardly to use it. Cross-platform applications like Microsoft Teams use TypeScript and the Electron framework, not MAUI. React Native is also popular within Microsoft, used in Microsoft Office and elsewhere. A developer asked last month "how is MAUI doing in 2026?" One reply said that the transition from .NET 9 to .NET 10, released last November, had been problematic, with some Android and iOS features not working as expected. "Tried numerous fixes and attempts that didn't work and so reverted back to .NET 9." Another said that "things got much worse compared to 2025 and the Q1 of 2026 was a time of constant regressions and other bugs that make it difficult to use in production." Android and iOS are frequently updated, which means a moving target for cross-platform frameworks such as MAUI. Microsoft's C# and .NET are popular for web applications, but for cross-platform GUI applications, MAUI appears to struggle for adoption. ®