Spring cleaning , the annual catharsis of tidying and refreshing, is currently upon us. Across the nation, closets are being reorganized, homes are being scrubbed and winter is being bade a not-too-fond farewell. Haven’t got your personal strategy down yet? Here at the Filter, we’ve asked our editors and contributors to share their most trusted products to help you better tackle this season of sparkle. From environmentally friendly soaps, powders and scrubbers to a premium air purifier to help combat dust and allergies, we run the gamut for all your spring cleaning needs. ChomChom Roller ChomChom Roller from $19.99 Photograph: Courtesy of Amazon $19.99 at Amazon $24.99 at Chewy If your cat tree looks as furry as your pets, I recommend a ChomChom Roller, an ingenious little device that works better than vacuums, sticky tape and lint rollers. I have two long-haired cats who love my linen-covered kitchen chairs and I wanted something that was gentle on fabric while still thoroughly removing their fur. Inside the ChomChom’s plastic housing, there’s a roller brush with burr-like bristles that attract hair. Give it a vigorous roll back and forth over your pet’s favorite hangout spot, and you’ll find a mass of hair contained behind a little door. You don’t have to pick it out of the roller brush; just lift it out of the compartment. Also, unlike lint rollers, it lasts. I’ve had mine for years, and it’s still restoring my chairs to their original fur-free state. Jenny McGrath, laundry and tech writer ChomChom Roller from $19.99 Casabella Power Spin Scrubber Casabella Power Spin Scrubber from $49.27 Photograph: Courtesy of Walmart $49.27 at Walmart $49.27 at Home Depot A few years ago, CleanTok was abuzz with spinning scrubbers, and I was skeptical. That’s until I got my hands on the rechargeable Casabella Power Spin Scrubber . This clever device telescopes to three convenient lengths, comes with four different heads, and is surprisingly powerful, so you can confidently deep clean every crevice and corner. I use it regularly to scour our showers and bathtub, but my favorite use is for our large stainless steel kitchen sink and its bottom grid, which can get crazy gunky from food debris. A few spritzes of cleaner plus a couple of minutes of scrubbing, and it is sparkling clean again. I’ve owned it since 2023 and have found that it still holds its charge really well – it definitely performs above its very affordable price point. Bernadette Machard de Gramont , kitchen writer Casabella Power Spin Scrubber from $49.27 Kamenoko Tawashi scrub brush Kamenoko Tawashi scrub brush from $8.99 Photograph: Courtesy of Amazon $8.99 at Amazon $9 at Jinen Despite all the shiny gadgets out there, you can also keep it simple. The Kamenoko Tawashi brush was first introduced to Japanese households over 100 years ago and remains a staple a century later, for good reason. Sturdy but not spiky, its natural-fiber bristles have scrubbed the most stubborn gunk from my pots and pans, including cast iron and stainless steel, without damaging their surfaces. It’s also Terminator durable – I used this hardy little tool for over a year and it still looked pretty much the same as when I got it, even after several spins in the dishwasher. You could use one for dishes, one for scrubbing floors and grout, and one for cleaning produce, as its Amazon product description advises somewhat threateningly: “WASH ALL YOUR VEGETABLES WITH THIS BRUSH. SCRUBBING INSTEAD OF PEELING ALLOWS YOU TO RECEIVE ALL THE EXTRA NUTRIENTS FROM THE SKIN OF THE VEGETABLE.” (This is generally supported as true .) You know, I’ve never been lectured by a brush before, but I’ll do whatever this one tells me to do. Karen Yuan, Filter US commissioning editor Kamenoko Tawashi scrub brush from $8.99 Bar Keepers Friend Cleanser Bar Keepers Friend Cleanser from $5.95 Photograph: Courtesy of Amazon $5.95 at Amazon $10.49 at Walmart Before my eight-year-old got braces earlier this year, her daily after-school snack was a big batch of popcorn made on the stovetop. In observing this ritual, I accidentally ruined our stainless-steel stockpot with baked-on oil – or so I thought. No amount of dish soap or baking soda made a dent in the goo. But then I sprinkled Bar Keepers Friend on the inside, and when I scrubbed at it a minute later, the sticky residue lifted off. The oxalic acid–based cleanser also turned the inside of my enameled cast iron Dutch oven white again and made the blackened bottom of my saucepan shine. Other uses include de-griming your oven door, removing knife marks from dinner plates, and whitening the soles of your sneakers. The instructions say to rinse the powder off within a minute of application, but when it came to tackling a particularly grimy baking sheet, I needed a little more time (and I learned the hard way to wear rubber gloves next time). Juno DeMelo, fitness and lifestyle writer Bar Keepers Friend Cleanser from $5.95 Showa Atlas 660 triple-dipped gloves Showa Atlas 660 triple-dipped gloves from $11.58 Photograph: Courtesy of Zoro $11.58 at Amazon $32.10 for pack of six at Zoro Stop tearing through a pair of fragile latex cleaning gloves every six months, and invest in these commercial-duty gauntlets. Built to shrug off everything from phosphoric acid to bleach , they’re overkill for greasy dishwater, but the leather-like thickness provides an encouraging confidence boost when you need to go wrist-deep on the gross tasks you’ve been avoiding. I originally bought them for clam digging in Puget Sound, where I dredged them through sharp rocks without a scratch, then I started recruiting them for every grody chore. Scooping up cat puke? No problem. Cleaning gutters? Perfect. Reaching into a clogged drain? Bring it on. The sandpapery texture of the fingers deliver grip even when they’re dripping in soap (or whatever ), and the cotton-flocked interior makes them easy to slip off when you need to fast-forward through podcast ads in the middle of scrubbing your toilet. A good distraction is the real hero of spring cleaning. Nick Mokey, Filter US editor Showa Atlas 660 triple-dipped gloves from $11.58 Ecovacs Winbot Mini Window Cleaning Robot Ecovacs Winbot Mini Window Cleaning Robot $239.99 Photograph: Courtesy of Ecovacs $239.99 at Ecovacs I despise cleaning. I always have. I mean, with a family of four, I do it – but under duress. Window cleaning is like peak aggravation for folks like me, and it doesn’t help living on the 13th floor in a busy section of Brooklyn. But every once in a while, we realize the daily city grime buildup has gotten out of hand and it’s an all-hands-on-deck situation. Until I found this darling robot. Forget those annoying squeegees, stepstools and ladders. This Winbot Mini is small enough to store in my apartment and easily cleans every inch of my windows. A combination of suction power, patented cleaning cloth, atomization spray and bumper-less design assures that it can clean the narrowest of windows end to end. And in case you’re wondering, it has built-in sensors that trigger an alarm in case the robot loses orientation. That means it’s programmed to catch its own falls, but also comes with accidental damage insurance just in case (which I thought was a nice touch). Come for the simple, no-hands cleaning, stay for the sci-fi robot gliding around your windows. Either way, the Winbot Mini has been a spring cleaning champion in my home. Tobey Grumet Segal, lifestyle and tech writer Ecovacs Winbot Mini Window Cleaning Robot $239.99 Kikkerland Bottle Scrubbies Kikkerland Bottle Scrubbies from $5.99 Photograph: Courtesy of The Container Store $5.99 at The Container Store $14.99 at Amazon When I moved into my home nearly 20 years ago, I discovered a collection of old bottles in the basement. Over the years, I’ve found all sorts of uses for them: serving water from old milk bottles at dinner parties, displaying flower buds in skinny-topped medicine bottles, and putting string lights in bottles to illuminate my windowsills. I even store stuff in my pantry in cute old jars. But whatever I do with them, first I have to clean them out. A good set of bottle brushes like these go a long way, but sometimes you just cannot get to that little bit of stubborn sludge at the bottom of a pretty bottle. These funny, round sponges are the unlikely solution. Each scrubbie has a ceramic bead inside for weight: just stuff it into any bottle with soapy water, shake it around, and let the scrubbies clean. For really stuck-on dirt, let it sit a bit and shake some more. I also found they are excellent for cleaning the bottoms of those long, tall aluminum water bottles or portable coffee flasks. Viva la scrubbie! Maria Ricapito, beauty writer Kikkerland Bottle Scrubbies from $5.99 Bissell Little Green Multi-Purpose Portable Carpet and Upholstery Cleaner Bissell Little Green Multi-Purpose Portable Carpet and Upholstery Cleaner from $116.99 Photograph: Courtesy of Bissell $116.99 at Bissell $129.99 at Amazon My household is proof that the Bissell Little Green upholstery cleaner deserves every bit of its viral status. Between my toddler, who leaves trails of food in her wake like Hansel and Gretel, to my two cats, who manage to tip over just about any unattended mug, this handy device has saved me hundreds on a professional cleaning service. In the four years since I bought it, it’s more than paid for itself. Sure, its included cleaning formula does a great job of tackling both caked-on debris and embedded stains. But what I truly appreciate is the ASMR-like satisfaction of watching its dirt tank fill up with household grime. The feeling of productivity is so intense it’s almost habit-forming. I don’t look forward to the sight (or smell) of dirt around my home, but any opportunity I get to give this thing a spin is an afternoon well spent. Marissa Miller, fitness and lifestyle writer Bissell Little Green Multi-Purpose Portable Carpet and Upholstery Cleaner from $116.99 Le Parfait Super Jars Le Parfait Super Jars from $49.99 Photograph: Courtesy of Amazon $49.99 for pack of four at Amazon $49.99 for pack of four at Walmart I am a lifelong canner and fermentation enthusiast, which means that I am also addicted to collecting jars. As a result, I have really strong opinions about what makes a good jar, and what jars are best for what purposes. When it comes to organizing, I swear by Le Parfait’s Super Jars, which come in a range of sizes, have sturdy swing-top lids and are dishwasher safe. I use these to organize grains, flours, beans and other pantry staples, but they also have a home in my craft room, where they hold everything from buttons and beads to spools of embroidery thread. As an added bonus, the rubber gasket (easily removed for washing) keeps the jar airtight, so my pantry staples last longer and it prevents spills if a jar gets knocked over. Julia Skinner, kitchen and lifestyle writer Le Parfait Super Jars from $49.99 Dr Bronner’s Sal Suds Biodegradable Cleaner Dr Bronner’s Sal Suds Biodegradable Cleaner from $11.29 Photograph: Courtesy of Target $11.29 at Target $18.99 at Amazon I’ve relied on Dr Bronner’s Castile soap for years as an all-around bath soap and body cleanser. In 2018, an off-grid-living friend introduced me to Sal Suds as his dish soap of choice, and I’ve been using it ever since. Sal Suds cleans dishes well (and smells great) but I also love it because it’s a good biodegradable, all-purpose soap. That means it’s nice on my dishes, but if I need to scrub something down and hose it off outside, I don’t have to worry about damaging my organic garden and its resident flora and fauna. In the kitchen, I dilute it with water before adding it to my soap dispenser, so a gallon of soap lasts me an extra long time. Plus, Dr Bronner’s pays living wages to employees and takes care to source ethically, so it’s a company I feel good about supporting. Julia Skinner, kitchen and lifestyle writer Dr Bronner’s Sal Suds Biodegradable Cleaner from $11.29 Brabantia Collapsible Laundry Basket Brabantia Collapsible Laundry Basket from $33.99 Photograph: Courtesy of Amazon $33.99 at Amazon $39 at The Container Store For me, part of spring cleaning means replacing my cold-weather clothes with warm-weather duds – and laundering them in the process. Though many laundry baskets take up way more space than I’d prefer, I love how this one from Brabantia collapses to become almost flat, making it ideal for small apartments. I tuck it into the tiniest crevice between my washer and the wall, and find that it makes me more keen to actually do my laundry, because nothing feels more satisfying than putting away the actual basket after folding the last piece of clothing. Oset Babür-Winter, spirits writer Brabantia Collapsible Laundry Basket from $33.99 Sun Joe Electric Pressure Power Washer Sun Joe Electric Pressure Power Washer from $143.65 Photograph: Courtesy of Amazon $143.65 at Amazon $143.65 at Walmart Winter can be particularly nasty to your exterior surfaces: sidewalks, driveways, decks and patios, and even gutters can all emerge from their cold slumber looking, well, not their best. That’s why my wife loves busting out her pressure washer every spring. We all have hobbies; don’t judge. A pressure washer can make a sidewalk look as good as new in just a few minutes’ time, and add some sparkle to your spring look. In other seasons, it can clean everything from your car to your siding. They don’t come cheap, but this pressure washer has paid for itself many times over since I got it for my wife as a birthday present – she specifically requested it, I promise you. So if you enjoy the zen of spraying back and forth along your driveway, or you just like to keep things clean, this is a great way to go. Adam Doud, tech writer Sun Joe Electric Pressure Power Washer from $143.65 A3 Ultra Quiet Air Purifier A3 Ultra Quiet Air Purifier from $749.95 Photograph: Courtesy of Rabbit Air $749.95 at Rabbit Air $759.95 at Amazon I’m a big fan of any gadget that does the spring cleaning for me . So an air purifier that automatically removes dust, allergens, kitchen smells and other impurities as I sleep, cook and lounge on the couch is well worth the investment. It may be pricey, but the Rabbit Air’s Hepa-rated A3 Ultra Quiet Air Purifier cleans up to 1,070 sq ft of space through a six-stage filtration system, stripping away mold, bacteria, allergens, odors and chemicals. It also removes harmful airborne VOCs, which can come from everyday hazards such as household cleaners, furniture off-gassing, gas stoves – even scented candles. Smart sensors power the purifier up when pollutants are detected, and switch it to ultra-quiet sleep mode when the room darkens at bedtime. If you’re in the market for a buy-for-life air purifier that covers lots of ground, the A3 is well worth a look. Elizabeth Brownfield, kitchen writer A3 Ultra Quiet Air Purifier from $749.95