Large anti-authoritarian No Kings rallies took place across 50 states and 16 countries on Saturday, in the third such protest against the Trump administration . People joined massive rallies in protest against Donald Trump’s decision to enter into war with Iran, as well as against rising living costs and federal immigration enforcement. Organisers said they expected Saturday’s protest to be the largest to date, after the last No Kings rally in October drew 7 million people nationwide. Here are the key stories at a glance: Third No Kings protest draws millions from across US to push back on Trump administration More than 3,000 No Kings protests against the Trump administration were held nationwide and in more than a dozen countries on Saturday, according to a coalition of organizers that includes “anti-authoritarian” groups Indivisible and 50501, labor unions and other grassroots organizations. “I would expect March 28 to be the biggest protest in American history,” Ezra Levin, co-founder of Indivisible, said ahead of the protests. Read the full story ‘No kings, just vaccines!’: demonstrators gather at NIH headquarters to protest against cuts to medical research As tens of thousands of people assembled across the US and around the world for the No Kings protests, about a thousand people gathered outside the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in Bethesda, Maryland , on Saturday morning to protest cuts to medical research and the Trump’s administration’s policies on health. Read the full story US treasury department demands retraction of story on increased oversight of Federal Reserve The US treasury department demanded on Friday that the Financial Times (FT) retract a report on treasury secretary Scott Bessent’s views on the Federal Reserve , accusing the newspaper of publishing “false claims” in a formal complaint escalated to the outlet’s parent company, Nikkei Inc. The email from treasury officials, addressed to senior editors at the FT and Nikkei, disputed multiple claims in the story and criticized the headline as misrepresenting the underlying reporting. Read the full story US House passes stopgap DHS funding bill after Republicans reject Senate deal US House Republicans rejected a bipartisan Senate deal to temporarily fund the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and instead passed their own funding measure late on Friday, extending a weeks-long budget standoff that has disrupted air travel. The stopgap bill, which proposes funding the DHS in full for eight weeks, passed by 213 to 203 votes after Republicans in the lower chamber refused to take up a Senate-passed deal that excluded money for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and the border patrol. Read the full story What else happened today: Catching up? Here’s what happened Friday 27 March .