PepsiCo India said the Kosi-Pataudi EV Green Corridor is designed as a scalable model for electric linehaul freight. PepsiCo India on Wednesday announced the launch of an ' EV Green Corridor ' on the Kosi-Pataudi (UP-Haryana) route to increase its green logistics network as part of efforts to reduce emissions across its supply chain. The dedicated ' EV Green Corridor ' on the Kosi-Pataudi route developed in collaboration with Kalyani Powertrain Ltd, an arm of Bharat Forge Ltd, will operate with eight 32-feet single-axle Re-Powered electric container trucks , the company said in a statement. It will enable approximately 4.8 lakh electric kilometres annually on the route, it added. The company further said it has also converted more than 400 distributor-linked vehicles to electric three and four-wheelers across markets, directly reducing emissions at the last mile of delivery. In the National Capital Region, it has deployed over 80 CNG vehicles, through its logistics partners, as part of its strategy to lower the environmental footprint of urban logistics. "The launch of the EV Green Corridor on the Kosi-Pataudi route , together with the electrification of our distributor fleet and CNG deployment in NCR, reflects our commitment to building a supply chain that is cleaner, more efficient, and future-ready," PepsiCo India & South Asia CEO, Jagrut Kotecha, said. The partnership with PepsiCo India will help in advancing sustainable freight mobility through the deployment of electric container trucks on the Kosi-Pataudi Green Corridor, Kalyani Powertrain Ltd Managing Director, Pankaj Sonalkar said. "This initiative demonstrates how electric vehicle technology can be effectively integrated into commercial logistics operations when supported by strong ecosystem collaboration," he added. PepsiCo India said the Kosi-Pataudi EV Green Corridor is designed as a scalable model for electric linehaul freight, with the supporting ecosystem addressing charging infrastructure, route optimisation and vehicle customisation. Published On Mar 19, 2026 at 08:44 AM IST Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals. Subscribe to Newsletter to get latest insights & analysis in your inbox. All about ETAuto industry right on your smartphone!