Total vehicle registrations in 2025 were significantly higher than in 2024, with over 3.31 lakh vehicles registered in the Pune RTO office compared to 3.02 lakh the previous year.. The trend of people purchasing vehicles throughout the year, rather than waiting for auspicious occasions, is evident in the registration data at Pune's Regional Transport Office (RTO) ahead of Gudi Padwa. In the 11 days leading up to the festival, overall vehicle registrations declined by nearly 10 per cent compared to the same period last year. This year saw 11,937 registrations, while last year recorded 13,190. Registration of all categories of vehicles, including two-wheelers, cars, autorickshaws and goods carriers, experienced a drop this year. An RTO official, however, said this decline is not alarming. "Total vehicle registrations in 2025 were significantly higher than in 2024, with over 3.31 lakh vehicles registered in the Pune RTO office compared to 3.02 lakh the previous year. Additionally, more than 75,000 vehicles have already been registered this year, indicating that while people are still buying vehicles, many are no longer waiting for festivals or special occasions. This trend is expected to continue," the RTO official said. Some residents, however, continue to follow tradition. Palkesh Dixit, a bank employee from Camp, said he had booked a car earlier in the month and planned to take delivery on Gudi Padwa. "My parents stressed it. I also feel that buying something new on an auspicious day like Gudi Padwa is always special," he said. In contrast, Akshay Kadam, a student from Tingrenagar, chose practicality over tradition. "I was desperate to buy a two-wheeler and bought it earlier this month, even though my grandfather told me to wait till the festival. Going to college and tuitions in the bus became very hectic, and on most days, I failed to reach on time. I preferred cycling, but the roads have become dangerous and are not suitable for cycling. So, I bought a new two-wheeler in early March," Kadam said. Meanwhile, the decline in electric vehicle (EV) registrations was even more significant, despite the continuation of a low 5 per cent GST. During the festival period this year, a total of 1,530 EVs were registered, compared to 2,124 last year-a drop of nearly 28 per cent. However, the overall EV registrations in 2025 in Pune stood at 37,470 against 35,995 in 2024, an increase of 4 per cent. Another RTO official expressed concern about the drop in EV registrations during the festival period. "Though the exact reasons for low EV registrations remain unclear, it is a concern. But with the EV policy and reduced vehicle price, we hope the registration numbers grow soon," he said. Earlier, vehicle dealers had identified inadequate charging infrastructure and maintenance issues with certain EV brands as key factors contributing to lower EV adoption. Published On Mar 19, 2026 at 11:35 AM IST Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals. Subscribe to Newsletter to get latest insights & analysis in your inbox. All about ETAuto industry right on your smartphone!