In an aerial view, a billboard advertising an artificial intelligence (AI) company is posted on Sept. 16, 2025 in San Francisco, California. Justin Sullivan | Getty Images Meta has signed a new long-term agreement to spend up to $27 billion on Dutch cloud provider Nebius ' AI infrastructure, the company announced on Monday. Nebius' shares surged 14% in early trading. Over the next five years, Nebius will provide $12 billion of dedicated capacity across a number of locations, including on what the company says will be one of the first large-scale deployments of Nvidia' s latest AI-specialist Vera Rubin chips. Meta has also committed to purchase additional available compute capacity from Nebius, worth up to a total of $15 billion over five years. Netherlands-based Nebius has emerged as a leading European player in the rapidly developing AI cloud computing space. The company has seen its share price increase more than 400% since listing in New York in 2024. Stock Chart Icon Stock chart icon Nebius shares year-to-date "We are pleased to expand our significant partnership with Meta as part of securing more large, long-term capacity contracts to accelerate the build-out and growth of our core AI cloud business," Arkady Volozh, founder and CEO of Nebius, said in a statement. Citi said Monday it was initiating coverage of Nebius with a buy/high risk rating, which it noted was supported by a "differentiated view on AI datacenter [total addressable market] growth, margin improvement and NBIS's capital-efficient scaling." Meta is part of a group of hyperscalers planning huge spending as they race to build out infrastructure to power the AI boom. The company said its AI-related capital expenditure would hit between $115 billion and $135 billion this year, as part of a combined $700 billion in spending by hyperscalers including Amazon , Alphabet and Microsoft . It comes as investors pile into the AI cloud computing sector. U.K.-based AI data center startup Nscale announced it had raised $2 billion at a $14.6 billion valuation last week, from investors including Nvidia. The chip giant also announced it would invest $2 billion in Nebius last week, which saw the Dutch company's stock pop 16%. Nebius was founded in 2022 after a restructuring of Russian company Yandex's operations based outside of its home market and listed in New York in 2024. Its share price rose more than 200% in 2025 and has increased by 35% so far in 2026. The company also inked a deal to deliver computing resources to Microsoft, worth up to $19.4 billion over five years, in September.