LONDON: European markets fell sharply on Thursday (Mar 19) as the latest escalation in the US and Israel's war with Iran sent oil prices soaring again and left top central banks grappling with when and how to handle the likely jump in inflation. Attacks on Iran's South Pars gas field, on the world's largest gas plant in Qatar and on oil refineries in both Saudi Arabia and Kuwait sent Brent prices shooting to US$115 a barrel , consigning the FTSEurofirst 300 to a near 2 per cent early drop. Benchmark government bond yields - which set the global cost of borrowing - also rose as rate decisions from both the European Central Bank and Bank of England loomed after the Bank of Japan and the US Federal Reserve both aired their concerns about the conflict. Traders expect the ECB will have to deliver at least two rate hikes this year, from having priced around a 40 per cent chance of a cut in 2026 prior to the war erupting. Switzerland's central bank has already said it was keeping rates at zero, but signalled its readiness to intervene to curb the recent surge in the Swiss franc as investors look for traditional pockets of safety. "Central banks are looking at this situation cautiously," said FIM Partners' CIO of emerging market debt Francesc Balcells. "I don't think they want to overreact (to the spike in energy prices), but they don't want to make the same mistakes of the past either," he said, referring to 2022 when central banks mistakenly judged the post-COVID, post-Ukraine invasion surge in inflation to be temporary. The ratcheting up of the war also sent Europe's natural gas prices surging 25 per cent to their highest levels of the crisis so far. US President Donald Trump said an angry Israel had "violently lashed out" when it attacked Iran's major gas field on Wednesday. Iran then retaliated by firing missiles at gas and oil facilities in Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. In the currency markets, the yen remained near the key 160 per dollar level as the BOJ left its interest rates unchanged. It left traders on watch for possible FX intervention after strong comments from Japanese Finance Minister Satsuki Katayama earlier in the day.