Finding a significant discount on a current-gen Apple product is a rarity, so this deal for Amazon’s Big Spring Sale is one to pounce on if you want to upgrade your smartwatch . The Apple Watch Series 11 is down to its lowest price ever at $299 for the 42mm model. That’s a 25% discount off its normal $399 price. Amazon Big Spring Sale Deals *Deals are selected by our commerce team The Best Apple Watch for 25% Off Save $100 on the Apple Watch Series 11 Apple Watch Series 11 Apple's latest flagship smartwatch, at its lowest price ever $299.00 at Amazon $399.00 Save $100.00 Get Deal The Apple Watch Series 11 earned a nearly perfect 4.5-star rating in my review, plus our esteemed Editors’ Choice award. Of the current Apple Watch lineup , it’s the best choice for most people when you consider its comprehensive feature set and value. New to this generation, the Series 11 has improved battery life, a scratch-resistant coating, and hypertension notifications. Apple’s watchOS 26 software adds a Workout Buddy to keep you motivated during your exercise with AI-generated words of encouragement, a Sleep Score to give you a holistic view of your nightly rest, and a wrist flick gesture to dismiss alarms and calls. The Series 11 also retains all the niceties of its outstanding predecessor , including a wide-angle OLED display, an underwater depth gauge, and music playback capabilities. It works well as a health and fitness tracker , with sensors to measure your heart rate, ECG, skin temperature, and even blood oxygen saturation (SpO2). Recommended by Our Editors More Deals on Smartwatches *Deals are selected by our commerce team At $299, the Apple Watch Series 11 is closer in price to the budget-friendly $249 Apple Watch SE 3 than its usual $399 MSRP. The SE 3 is an excellent watch in its own right, but it has a smaller screen with thicker bezels, and lacks hypertension notifications, dust protection, a depth gauge, and ECG and SpO2 sensors from the Series 11. Grab the Series 11 now at a fantastic price, without compromising on features. Get Our Best Stories! Your Daily Dose of Our Top Tech News Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! About Our Expert Andrew Gebhart Senior Writer, Smart Home and Wearables Experience I’m PCMag’s senior writer covering smart home and wearable devices. I’ve been reporting on tech professionally for nearly a decade and have been obsessing about it for much longer than that. Prior to joining PCMag, I made educational videos for an electronics store called Abt Electronics in Illinois, and before that, I spent eight years covering the smart home market for CNET. I foster many flavors of nerdom in my personal life. I’m an avid board gamer and video gamer. I love fantasy football, which I view as a combination of role-playing games and sports. Plus, I can talk to you about craft beer for hours and am on a personal quest to have a flight of beer at each microbrewery in my home city of Chicago. Read Full Bio