If you're not satisfied with your experience on ChatGPT, Claude, or any other AI chatbot , you can now switch to Gemini without losing your chat history or preferences. Google on Thursday announced new “switching tools” to make the shift easier. When I logged into Gemini today, I saw a banner inviting me to try them. If you don’t see the banner, go to Settings & help > Import memory to Gemini . To import your preferences, or what AI companies like to call “memory,” Gemini provides a prompt. Paste this prompt into your current chatbot, and wait for it to respond with a summary of your preferences and key details. Copy-paste that response into Gemini’s transfer page, and click Add memory to complete the process. (Credit: Google/PCMag) Transferring memory helps Gemini “understand the same key facts you’ve shared with other apps, like your interests, your sibling’s name, or where you grew up. Instead of starting over from scratch, you can quickly get Gemini up to speed on what matters most to you,” Google says. If importing memory alone isn’t enough, you can also import your chats. To do that, you need to export data from your current chatbot and upload it as a ZIP file to Gemini. There are two minor caveats with this transfer, though. One, the ZIP file you upload to Gemini can’t be larger than 5GB. Two, receiving the ZIP file from the previous chatbot may take a few days. I tried exporting chats from ChatGPT , and it said I’d receive a download link when the data is ready. Recommended by Our Editors To export data from ChatGPT, click your profile in the bottom left, then select Settings > Data Controls > Export Data. In the next and final step, you may be required to verify your email with a six-digit code. You can find a similar export data option in Claude as well. ChatGPT's data controls page  (Credit: OpenAI/PCMag) Gemini’s switching tools arrive just weeks after Anthropic released one for Claude . For now, you can only carry over your preferences to Claude , not entire chats. ChatGPT, on the other hand, doesn’t seem to have a dedicated feature to import chats or memories. Get Our Best Stories! Your Daily Dose of Our Top Tech News Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! About Our Expert Experience Jibin is a tech news writer based out of Ahmedabad, India. Previously, he served as the editor of iGeeksBlog and is a self-proclaimed tech enthusiast who loves breaking down complex information for a broader audience. Read Full Bio