Apple’s Mac Pro is no more, as the desktop tower-shaped computer has been removed from its online store. According to a confirmation from Apple to 9to5Mac , the brand has discontinued the Mac Pro with no plans to introduce a new version. This is the end of the road for Mac Pro, which was first introduced in August 2006. On Thursday, Apple redirected those looking for a modern Mac Pro to the overarching Mac section of its website, removing the product from sale. The last version was updated three years ago with an M2 Ultra powering the computer. That product cost $6,999, and with a newer Mac Studio available, it was unlikely to be selling as well, given the M2 Ultra's age. Apple now sees the Mac Studio as the future of its desktop products, alongside its iMac and Mac mini options. This design of the Mac Pro, with the cheese-grater front, first debuted in 2019 before being refreshed in 2023 with the M2 Ultra chip version. Before then, the brand had its cylinder-style design, which first debuted in 2013. The very first Mac Pro debuted in 2006 as an Intel-based replacement for the Power Mac G5 line. There were five versions of that Mac Pro sold through to 2012, each powered by a different Xeon processor. Recommended by Our Editors If you’re desperate for a modern Mac Pro, you may still be able to find stock from select retailers, but we’d expect that to dry up fast. It’s also out of date, considering the alternatives on the market from Apple, and most users would be happier with a Mac Studio instead. PCMag's review of the most recent Mac Studio with an M4 Max chip said, "The Mac Studio isn't perfect—the lack of upgradable components and high-end price will turn away some shoppers—but sitting between the tiny Mac mini and the amped-up Mac Studio with M3 Ultra , the Apple Mac Studio with M4 Max seems to be the best Studio model for most people." Get Our Best Stories! Love All Things Apple? Sign up for our Weekly Apple Brief for the latest news, reviews, tips, and more delivered right to your inbox. Sign up for our Weekly Apple Brief for the latest news, reviews, tips, and more delivered right to your inbox. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! About Our Expert Experience I’ve been a journalist for over a decade after getting my start in tech reporting back in 2013.  I joined PCMag in 2025, where I cover the latest developments across the tech sphere, writing about the gadgets and services you use every day. Be sure to send me any tips you think PCMag would be interested in. Read Full Bio