Google Translate’s live speech translation with headphones is now available on iOS. The Gemini-powered feature made its Android debut in December and lets you hear translations in real time through your headphones. To give it a try, launch the Translate app, select the desired languages, connect your headphones, and tap the Live Translate button at the bottom left of the home page. (Credit: Jibin Joseph) You can use the feature to hear translations of a conversation in a foreign language or of dialogues in a TV show or film in another language. While translating, Gemini preserves “the tone, emphasis and cadence of each speaker to create more natural translations and make it easier to follow along,” Google said in a blog post. Apple currently supports Live Translation on AirPods 4, AirPods Pro 2, and AirPods Pro 3. The feature is also available on AirPods Max 2 , which begins rolling out to customers early next month. Google Translate’s live translation works without the headphones as well. It supports more than 70 languages , including Arabic, Chinese, English, French, German, Hindi, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish. Previously, the feature was limited to Android users in the US, India, and Mexico. Now it is expanding to both Android and iOS users in those countries, as well as Germany, Spain, France, Nigeria, Italy, the UK, Japan, Bangladesh, and Thailand, a Google publicist tells PCMag. Recommended by Our Editors Notably, Gemini-powered live speech translation is also available for Google Meet. This week, Google also made its Search Live feature available to users worldwide. The feature lets you point your camera toward something and ask questions about it in natural language. You can get started by tapping the Live button in the Google app. Get Our Best Stories! Your Daily Dose of Our Top Tech News Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! About Our Expert Experience Jibin is a tech news writer based out of Ahmedabad, India. Previously, he served as the editor of iGeeksBlog and is a self-proclaimed tech enthusiast who loves breaking down complex information for a broader audience. Read Full Bio