Cloud-native governance seems poised to cool AI mania, forcing enterprises to ask: How do you scale AI without losing control of the infrastructure beneath it? That question loomed over the Cloud Native Computing Foundation’s flagship conference, which brought together adopters and technologists from leading open-source and cloud-native communities in Amsterdam. With the EU Cyber Resilience Act obligations poised to take effect in September and AI workloads spreading across a Kubernetes bedrock, the event underscored a clear shift: Cloud-native governance is now the critical control layer for modern enterprise infrastructure, according to Paul Nashawaty (pictured, right), principal analyst at theCUBE Research. “The themes of this show [are] governance, compliance, regulations and data sovereignty. And no surprise — when you have the EU CRA that’s going into effect this year, that’s a big, big factor,” Nashawaty said. “I’ve been walking the show floor. I’ve been having many, many conversations about those.” Nashawaty and theCUBE’s Rebecca Knight (left) and Rob Strechay (center) delivered a day three analysis at KubeCon + CloudNativeCon EU 2026 , during an exclusive broadcast on theCUBE, SiliconANGLE Media’s livestreaming studio. They discussed the convergence of cloud-native governance, AI workloads and community-led standardization driving the next phase of Kubernetes maturity. (* Disclosure below.) Cloud-native governance meets the AI maturity test KubeCon EU drew more than 13,000 attendees from 100 countries, marking its highest attendance to date , Nashawaty noted. That scale also reflected thematically, with participants discussing issues from developer experience and open infrastructure modernization for AI, to Kubernetes’ expanding role in the broader cloud-native ecosystem. But as projects such as KubeVirt, OpenFeature and Argo approach graduation, signals point to a deeper layer of cloud-native governance maturity beyond basic container orchestration, Strechay added. “I think there’s a maturity to the cloud-native part of this that’s coming on, not just the Kubernetes,” he said. “We’re now almost 12 years in with Kubernetes … It is the ‘de facto’ standard at this point.” Yet skills gaps and complexity remain persistent headwinds, even as AI compounds the challenge. Organizations are responding by favoring generalists over specialists to cope with rapidly shifting demands, Nashawaty explained. “We see in our research 67% of organizations are hiring generalists over specialists,” he said. “[That’s] largely due to the fact that AI is an accelerator to help you do your job. It doesn’t replace your job. It’s a tool.” Standardization and open-source collaboration are also critical. Europe now leads in cloud-native contributions, followed by the U.S., with India and China close behind, Strechay pointed out. That global momentum reinforces the community’s role in establishing the security and governance frameworks necessary for AI to scale responsibly. “Standardization absolutely helps,” he said. “It helps from a security perspective. It helps from an abilities perspective. It is leveling the playing field, which I think has to happen for AI to really be what it needs to be.” Here’s the complete video interview, part of SiliconANGLE’s and theCUBE’s coverage of KubeCon + CloudNativeCon EU 2026 : VIDEO (* Disclosure: TheCUBE is a paid media partner for KubeCon + CloudNativeCon EU 2026. Sponsors of theCUBE’s event coverage do not have editorial control over content on theCUBE or SiliconANGLE.) Photo: SiliconANGLE A message from John Furrier, co-founder of SiliconANGLE: Support our mission to keep content open and free by engaging with theCUBE community. Join theCUBE’s Alumni Trust Network , where technology leaders connect, share intelligence and create opportunities. 15M+ viewers of theCUBE videos , powering conversations across AI, cloud, cybersecurity and more 11.4k+ theCUBE alumni — Connect with more than 11,400 tech and business leaders shaping the future through a unique trusted-based network. About SiliconANGLE Media SiliconANGLE Media is a recognized leader in digital media innovation, uniting breakthrough technology, strategic insights and real-time audience engagement. As the parent company of SiliconANGLE , theCUBE Network , theCUBE Research , CUBE365 , theCUBE AI and theCUBE SuperStudios — with flagship locations in Silicon Valley and the New York Stock Exchange — SiliconANGLE Media operates at the intersection of media, technology and AI. Founded by tech visionaries John Furrier and Dave Vellante, SiliconANGLE Media has built a dynamic ecosystem of industry-leading digital media brands that reach 15+ million elite tech professionals. Our new proprietary theCUBE AI Video Cloud is breaking ground in audience interaction, leveraging theCUBEai.com neural network to help technology companies make data-driven decisions and stay at the forefront of industry conversations.