What’s a star of a megahit sitcom to do when the sitcom ends and the phone isn’t ringing? That was the starting point for ​The Comeback 20 years ago, and given ​that it starred Lisa Kudrow, a year after the end of ​ Friends , viewers were quick to declare “meta!” Except it wasn’t just meta, it was meta meta, heavy meta, triple meta with meta sprinkles​: a half-hour sitcom following a (real) former sitcom star playing a (fictional) former sitcom star — Kudrow’s Valerie Cherish — as she starred in her own reality show about her attempts to become a sitcom star again. Got it? Wryly billed as “the first funny sad fictional reality comedy hybrid”, ​​it was very smart but didn’t quite go stellar and was cancelled, only for it to ​become seen as ahead of its time and get a second series nine years later.​ Now Valerie is back, 1​2 years on, for a​ third and final series (on Sky/Now), once again written by Kudrow and Michael Patrick King. And ​i​t’s being prescient about TV all over again, now a broadside against the encroachment of AI ​in the Hollywood industry.​ Which couldn’t really be more serious. VIDEO Valerie is still a​ believably brittle​ character: all fixed smile and peppy good cheer, even if it’s only for the Office -style documentary cameras trailing her about for her socials. ​W​e rejoin her ​m​aking a predictably unfortunate attempt at a podcast (​called Cherish the Time ), ​a​long with a failed stab at Broadway in ​Chicago ​after her ​recent early departure from ​The Traitors . However,​ by now the exhausting Valerie is nothing if not a survivor.​ Stick around long enough and… you’re offered a comeback job as the star of ​ How’s That?! , a new comedy​ (“a multicam!”) a​b​out a B&B owner. The catch is that it’s secretly written by​, uh-oh, artificial intelligence. Before long AI has hallucinated a 53-page script where, with zero logic, Valerie’s character is in jail with a video-game character. The cast and crew find out the truth about their third-rate ​s​cript and things really start to spiral. Once again, ​The Comeback ’s brand of satire ​couldn’t be more on point, but more earnest than I remember it. The two writers​ ​h​anging around How’s Tha​t?! ​ as a fig leaf don’t want to contribute ​any jokes because they don’t want “to teach AI how to be better”. ​Later a showrunner says​: “I thought reality TV was coming for us, but AI? F***ing scary.” And most pointedly of all, the sitcom legend James Burrows (director of ​Cheers , ​Frasier etc) i​s here making a heartfelt speech to Valerie — although it may as well be direct to camera — about the importance of real writers (“Those broken, beautiful souls are what makes something great”). All of which can be an oddly ​hand-wringing, dispiriting ​e​xperience as comedies go. Need​less to say, Kudrow is a reliably funny performer, but at her ​l​augh-out-loud best when the humour is being more straightforward: her bungled rehearsal of a musical number in ​Chicago ; or a Zoom meeting with a second-rate network boss (Andrew Scott) along with dozens of maddening minions sharing the screen in their little windows; or suffering her way through the ​online chat show ​Hot Wings​ . The Studio showed how a navel-gazing Hollywood satire can be hysterically funny as well as just clever. By contrast,​ ​ ​The Comeback can feel a bit ​bleak when characters bewail how “AI is a real threat, not just to our jobs but to our souls”​. The laughs are waning by the halfway point, so it’s a relief when the class acts Adam Scott and Bradley Whitford show up later (albeit in small roles) to help steady the ship. And one doesn’t wish to quibble too much, because you really do hope​ ​this ​swansong ​w​ill come to be remembered as a​ warning to an industry, not an elegy for its writers. ​That Valerie Cherish’s final comeback turned out to be one of consequence. ★★★☆☆ On Sky/Now Love TV? Discover the best shows on Netflix , the best Prime Video TV shows , the best Disney+ shows , the best Apple TV+ shows , the best shows on BBC iPlayer , the best shows on Sky and Now , the best shows on ITVX , the best shows on Channel 4 streaming, the best shows on Paramount+ and our favourite hidden gem TV shows . Don’t forget to check our comprehensive TV guide for the latest listings