Intel entered 2026 on the back foot — not something I'd have previously expected to write about one of the most dominant companies in computing. Apple , having dropped Intel as a hardware partner for its Macs was getting acclaim for its Arm -based M-series chips, while Intel's old rival AMD had a string of hits that allowed it to eat away at Intel's commanding market lead when it comes to processors. So, 2026 is an incredibly important year for Intel, and with the Core Ultra Series 3 “Panther Lake” launch back in January at CES 2026, the company appeared to come out swinging. After the launch, I was able to score some time with Intel’s Product Leader Nish Neelalojanan to get more details on Intel's hopes and plans for Panther Lake. Article continues below Panther Lake breakdown 2026 is another year where Intel has decided to break with its traditional CPU suffix structure. Panther Lake comes with X-prefix SKUs, as well as the usual H-suffix chips, and some that have no lettering at all. While Intel does have various resources highlighting all 14 new Panther Lake SKUs, a chart isn’t always the most obvious way to delineate the various differences between CPU segments. Neelalojanan broke down the stack, “Anything you see with the X, which are new for Panther Lake, will have the Arc B390 graphics. So that indicates the best of the best. So this indicates to end users if I have the big graphics, I have big everything, I’ll just go get it. “Then you have the non-X [SKUs] and there are some ending with an H, and some without,” Nellalojanan continued, “the H indicates the best CPUs. So the 16-core CPU. If you want to have an H, then it has the best CPU . If you have an H and an X, then you have the best of everything. And then the lower config, the 8 or 4-core config, doesn’t have a suffix. So it’ll just be a number. Intel Core Ultra and a number.” The point? “Take Panther Lake, and take all the Panther Lake IPs and scale it down to price points or the battery life, the productivity, but without all the other fluff, right?” Sign up for breaking news, reviews, opinion, top tech deals, and more. At least for this generation, Intel is retiring the traditional -P and -U suffixes. But we may see them return in the future. (Image credit: Shutterstock) Record-setting battery life Intel’s initial claims for the Core Ultra 300 series included a staggering degree of power efficiency. While Intel managed to achieve impressive battery life with the Core Ultra 200V Lunar Lake series, this next generation of processors continues the pattern, despite having a different underlying architecture. Intel promises up to 27 hours of video streaming battery life. But is that battery life expected on every iteration of Panther Lake? After all, there are quite a few different models of the architecture out there, as well as variations across the Panther Lake SKU stack. “With our Core Series 300, you’re going to get that 20 hours of battery life all the way down.” Nish Neelalojanan This was apparently intentional: “it’s going to be a choice point for OEMs to be able to pick and choose what they want to deliver,” Neelalojanan explained. “The 8-core [CPUs] are more productivity and battery life [focused], that would be better than previous generations.” Panther Lake has so many “different chops and cuts and things” to try and fit a variety of consumer needs, with different I/O variations and a veritable ton of PCIe lanes to feed, the needs of Intel’s OEM partners. But despite that large swing in core counts, clock speeds, and features, Neelalojanan attests it won’t come at the expense of battery life. “With our Core Series 300, you’re going to get that 20 hours of battery life all the way down.” Handheld dominance Intel announced a major handheld partnership at CES 2026, with partners including Acer , MSI , and Microsoft . While the details were at first a bit vague, Intel clarified its position later. Intel is making handheld-specific G-series processors , and they’re coming later this year. Obviously Intel wasn’t sharing a ton of details about those CPUs yet, but Neelalojanan did share some additional details. “So we will have some dedicated SKUs. Previously it was standard, off-the-shelf SKUs,” Neelalojanan confirmed. “We wanted to have dedicated SKUs. Two reasons; one, Panther Lake Architecture… it has the ability to go lower down [in regards to power consumption], but if we did some more tweaks, we can optimize it, because handhelds are definitely going to be 15 to 35 watts, depending on how OEMs can fix it right? So we want to make sure we are optimized for it.” And that optimization goes down to the silicon. “If you take the P and E cores, we have a performance cluster where we have the P- and E-cores. In Lunar Lake, we have P-cores only in the performance cluster, right? So in Arrow Lake, in that performance cluster, the E-cores didn’t have as much last level cache. Panther Lake E-cores, in the performance cluster, are going to have as big of a cache, so there’ll be access to that big cache in that performance cluster. "When it comes to low-power gaming, running on those E-cores in the performance cluster will free up enough power for the graphics. So, we are focusing on trying to be able to have SKUs which can leverage that more and have a construction fit for that.” Essentially, “it’s taking all the same building blocks, but it’s a more optimized SKU for handhelds. So that’s the bigger focus so that we can go hit the right type of handheld both on price and performance.” The handheld G-series processors will also be a bit trimmed down in terms of features, with fewer IO and PICe lanes, because a handheld simply doesn’t need all that extra flexibility. The upcoming Panther Lake handheld CPUs aren’t a sticker change on an existing mobile CPU, or a repackaging of “very old silicon,” but a full “SKU configuration, so it will take the same base, but the core configuration and everything will be different.” (Image credit: MSI) 2026 could be Intel’s best year Panther Lake has been heavily anticipated since it was barely a whisper on the Intel roadmap, and expectations now that it's been released are higher than ever. Intel was also the one manufacturer to focus on PC innovations during the company’s CES keynote, which helped further the hype. Based on Neelalojanan’s statements, this was intentional, “We had the most amount of PC content, that also feels good, that we can show up and show our intent.” And show intent, Intel certainly did. Intel does have some competition this year, with AMD’s Ryzen AI 400 series and Qualcomm’s Snapdragon X2 series having launched as well, which means all three major Windows chipmakers have had new systems powered by their components hit the shelves at the same time. So the fight to determine which laptop chip is superior may be decided sooner than expected. However, Panther Lake isn’t the only iron Intel has in the fire. Intel’s 2026 roadmap started with the main Panther Lake launch in January, which is expected to be followed up by the Arrow Lake Refresh desktop and high-end gaming laptop series launching sometime in mid 2026, followed by the Panther Lake handheld launch in the later half of the year. There's also the recent Arrow Lake Refresh launch, and if Team Blue can stick both landings, this could be the series of wins the company desperately needs. Neelalojanan himself certainly was enthusiastic for Intel’s 2026 lineup — particularly the headliner. “The three big things of Panther Lake is bringing that Lunar Lake and Arrow Lake performance all into one place or package… The next one is scalability and choice of price point, so it’s scaling in terms of multitudes of price points and the other one is, it’s available across 200 systems. It’s available right now, right? So we wanted to focus on those three things. Getting tangible battery life and performance, scalability, so everyone can enjoy it across price points. It’s available right now in multitudes of designs, which is three things not always done [by] our competitors when they put out products. Not to name names.” Follow TechRadar on Google News and add us as a preferred source to get our expert news, reviews, and opinion in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button! And of course, you can also follow TechRadar on YouTube and TikTok for news, reviews, unboxings in video form, and get regular updates from us on WhatsApp too. The best laptops for all budgets