Watch Celebrity Bake Off season 9 free streams where, perhaps for the first time, your heart will go out to Paul Hollywood as the blue-eyed grump runs the gauntlet of culinary calamities made by famous UK faces in the name of charity. For 2026, he's joined by Bake Off: The Professionals judge Cherish Finden, who makes the departed Prue Leith look warm and cuddly. With a fierce reputation to maintain, here's hoping she doesn't hold back. The series begins with a comedian special, featuring Joe Wilkinson, Rose Matafeo, Judi Love, Tom Davis, Jon Richardson and Roisin Conaty. They'll be tasked with baking cakes that honor the weirdest places they've ever slept. You can watch Celebrity Bake Off 2026 online from anywhere with a VPN and potentially for free. Swipe to scroll horizontally Conaty (S1), Richardson (S2), Wilkinson (S2), Matafeo (S6) and Davis (S6) are each back for a second bite of the cherry. Wilkinson – incredibly – won his episode, while fellow comedian Richardson spent most of his previous appearance in the Bake Off tent contemplating the cleanup and whether that should be part of the allotted time. Which brings us neatly to Molly-Mae "we all have the same 24 hours in a day" Hague, who found fame through Love Island in 2019 and has monetized virtually every second of her life ever since, thanks to a never-ending conveyor belt of brand deals and reality shows. The 24-strong lineup of participants also includes Code of Silence 's Rose Ayling-Ellis, Mobland 's Emmett J. Scanlan, This is Going to Hurt 's Ambika Mod and Sugababes singer Mutya Buena, plus comedian Richard Herring, a survivor of testicular cancer. The main purpose of the silliness and hosts Alison Hammond and Noel Fielding's antics is raising awareness of Cancer Research UK's Stand Up To Cancer fundraising campaign. Donate here . Read on as we explain how to watch Celebrity Bake Off 2026 from anywhere. Can I watch Celebrity Bake Off 2026 for free? Yes. Fans in the UK can watch Celebrity Bake Off 2026 FREE of charge on Channel 4 and the Channel 4 streaming service . Going abroad during season 9? Unlock Channel 4 with NordVPN – more details below. How to watch Celebrity Bake Off 2026 from anywhere If you're keen to watch Celebrity Bake Off 2026 but you're away from home and access to the show is geo-blocked, you can always use a VPN to access it (assuming you're not breaching any broadcaster T&Cs, of course). You may be surprised at how simple it is. A VPN is handy piece of software that can make your device appear as if it's back in your home country, so you can unlock your usual service. The best VPN right now? We recommend NordVPN – it does everything and comes with a 74% discount and Amazon Gift Card thrown in on some plans. Use one of the best VPNs to watch Celebrity Bake Off 2026 season 9 from anywhere: Can I watch Celebrity Bake Off 2026 in the US? In the US, Netflix is home to The Great British Bake Off – although it airs as The Great British Baking Show – but the celebrity edition has been left on the shelf. Free-to-air Roku Channel streaming service has some past seasons of the celebrity version, but they're not up to date. If you're a Brit in the USA, a VPN will help you tune in for free. NordVPN is our recommended provider, and you can find out why with our in-depth NordVPN review . Can I watch Celebrity Bake Off 2026 in Canada? The Great British Bake Off – known as The Great British Baking Show in Canada – airs on CBC, but the celebrity spinoff hasn't had any takers in the Great White North. On the plus side, season 17 has just landed. For now, Brits away from home can use a VPN to watch Celebrity Bake Off 2026 on Channel 4 from abroad . How to watch Celebrity Bake Off 2026 in the UK (Image credit: Future) Viewers in the UK can watch Celebrity Bake Off 2026 FREE on Channel 4 and via the Channel 4 streaming service . Season 9 episodes air at 7.40pm GMT every Sunday, starting March 22. All you need is an account, a TV license and a UK postcode (e.g.HA9 0WS). Sign up here ! Outside the UK? Use a VPN to gain access to all the content you'd normally stream at home. Can I watch Celebrity Bake Off 2026 in Australia? (Image credit: free) In Australia, The Great British Bake Off airs on Foxtel Now and Binge , and past seasons of the celebrity edition are available on the latter. We expect 2026's season 9 to follow, but nothing has been confirmed yet. If you're a Brit traveling Down Under, a VPN will help you tune in. NordVPN is our recommended provider. Celebrity Bake Off 2026 – Need to Know Who is in the Celebrity Bake Off 2026 cast? JoJo Siwa - reality TV star Molly-Mae Hague - reality TV star and businesswoman Vicky Pattison - reality TV star and businesswoman Scott Mills - DJ Rag’n’Bone Man - singer/songwriter Emmett J Scanlan - actor Aston Merrygold - singer Edith Bowman - DJ/presenter Ralf Little - actor Richard Herring - comedian Joe Wilkinson- comedian Babatunde Aleshe - comedian/presenter Rose Matafeo - comedian Judi Love - comedian/presenter Tom Davis - comedian Mark Wright - reality TV star/businessman Nella Rose - YouTuber Mutya Buena - singer/songwriter Jon Richardson - comedian Rose Ayling-Ellis - actor Sam Thompson - reality TV star Roisin Conaty - comedian Alex Brooker - comedian Ambika Mod - actor How many episodes of Celebrity Bake Off 2026 are there? Celebrity Bake Off typically comprises five episodes, but with 24 contestants set to feature in season 9, it looks like we're getting six episodes comprising four celebrity bakers this time around. We test and review VPN services in the context of legal recreational uses. For example: 1. Accessing a service from another country (subject to the terms and conditions of that service). 2. Protecting your online security and strengthening your online privacy when abroad. We do not support or condone the illegal or malicious use of VPN services. Consuming pirated content that is paid-for is neither endorsed nor approved by Future Publishing.