Microsoft may ditch the need to set up Windows 11 with a Microsoft account A company exec says software engineers are working on it There's no indication yet of when the change might be implemented Microsoft has told users that big improvements are coming to Windows 11 — improvements covering how much AI appears in the software, how updates are handled, and much more — and the operating system's setup process might also be getting a welcome tweak. As spotted by Windows Latest , in response to a user query on X about being able to set up Windows 11 without a Microsoft account, Microsoft exec Scott Hanselman says software engineers are now "working on it". Hanselman is a Vice President at Microsoft, and is part of the team tasked with pushing forward his company's year of reliability and performance upgrades for Windows 11. So far, Microsoft's changes have been positively received, for the most part. Article continues below Being able to set up a Windows 11 computer without the hassle of logging into a Microsoft account is something else that's likely to prove popular with users — as you can see if you read through some of the comments underneath Handselman's post. Putting the users first While it is still technically possible to set up Windows 11 without a Microsoft account, the workarounds are rather technical and tricky. The local account option has been gradually pushed out of the software over the years. As we've written in the past , that takes away user choice and flexibility, and there are no doubt some users who would rather not tie their copy of Windows 11 to a Microsoft account – or even have a Microsoft account at all. That Scott Hanselman says this is also something he hates is significant. It shows Microsoft willing to change features for the benefit of end users rather than prioritizing the best interests of the company. Sign up for breaking news, reviews, opinion, top tech deals, and more. While there's still a lot of work to do to restore trust and goodwill with users, Microsoft is doing okay so far (and we're only in March). As yet there's no indication of when this might roll out however — and aside from Scott Hanselman's post on X, there's no official confirmation that the change will happen. Follow TechRadar on Google News and add us as a preferred source to get our expert news, reviews, and opinion in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button! And of course, you can also follow TechRadar on YouTube and TikTok for news, reviews, unboxings in video form, and get regular updates from us on WhatsApp too. The best laptops for all budgets