The company said it has collaborated with EV charging infrastructure provider TRYK Charge Services LLP to execute this project. Logistics operator Cargo Matters on Tuesday announced its plans to invest ₹66 crore for setting up over 550 smart grid-enabled and solar-integrated electric vehicle charging stations across Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala. The company said it has collaborated with EV charging infrastructure provider TRYK Charge Services LLP to execute this project. Aimed at solving the infrastructure bottleneck for both commercial logistics and passenger mobility, the network will introduce a 360 kW DC fast charger , it said, adding that these facilities will support global standards alongside standard AC charging options. "The bottleneck to scaling electric logistics in India is no longer the vehicles; it is the absence of reliable, heavy-duty charging infrastructure on our freight corridors. By fully investing ₹66 crore into this network, Cargo Matters is helping secure India's operational future and accelerating the electrification of commercial transport," said Umesh Padala, Founder & Chairman, Cargo Matters. The infrastructure will be managed via a complete Charge Point Operator (CPO) platform, providing real-time analytics and remote monitoring, among others. Also, in a move to unify the fragmented charging market, the company said it will onboard existing unmanaged third-party chargers onto its platform, optimising operations and unlocking new revenue streams for independent charger owners. Besides, the two partners are jointly launching an RFID-based charging card for single-tap access to all stations to streamline the user experience, it said. "This partnership with Cargo Matters allows us to deploy top-tier technology, including ultra-fast 360 kW DC chargers, at an unprecedented scale. Together, we are building a unified ecosystem that serves both high-tonnage commercial fleets and everyday EV drivers with a single, seamless platform," said Kulbhushan Gawande, CEO, TRYK Charge Services . Published On Mar 18, 2026 at 10:29 AM IST Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals. Subscribe to Newsletter to get latest insights & analysis in your inbox. All about ETAuto industry right on your smartphone!