Bengaluru: The Centre for Nano Science and Engineering at the Indian Institute of Science, in collaboration with Groww Foundation , has launched a semiconductor skill development programme to train next-generation talent, officials said. The new initiative Groww Foundation - CeNSE ( Centre for Nano Science and Engineering ) Semiconductor Skill Development Programme , aims to encourage greater participation of women and young students in advanced fields such as micro and nano-technology, they said. It will also strengthen the emerging semiconductor ecosystem through targeted skill development and research exposure, Groww Foundation said in a statement. According to the statement, the initiative comprises three complementary programs that address different stages of the academic and research journey led by Dhavala Suri, Assistant Professor, CeNSE. Akanksha is designed to introduce meritorious school students to the world of micro- and nano-technology, the Foundation said. "Through immersive exposure at CeNSE laboratories and interactions with researchers, the programme seeks to inspire young girls to pursue careers in science and engineering and opens a window into cutting-edge research and innovation at the nanoscale," it said. The Research Experience Program (REP) provides women students with an opportunity to gain hands-on exposure to advanced research in nano science and semiconductor technology. Under the Research Internship Programme, the initiative also includes a research internship track for students trained under the skill development programmes supported by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Government of India, it said. Commenting on the development, Prof. Ambarish Ghosh, Chair, CeNSE, IISc stated, "At CeNSE, we believe that building India's semiconductor future requires nurturing diverse talent. Through this collaboration with Groww Foundation, we hope to create meaningful opportunities for young girls, women researchers, and emerging talent." Kalpana Swaminathan, spokesperson of Groww Foundation, said, "Through this collaboration with CeNSE IISc under what we call the Groww Scholar Program, we hope to unlock opportunities for young girls, women and tribal communities in a manner that organically builds pathways for their growth and advancement in deep science and advanced technology." Groww Foundation, through this programme, said it will support 160 girl and women students over the span of three years to encourage their greater participation in India's semiconductor ecosystem. Published On Mar 18, 2026 at 08:27 AM IST Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals. Subscribe to Newsletter to get latest insights & analysis in your inbox. All about ETTelecom industry right on your smartphone!