Amazon is a treat right now with all the sweet discounts and price drops. The retailer is also offering up to 45% off its own devices this Spring Sale, which makes now a great time to grab a Kindle if reading more is on your list for 2026. You can grab the latest Signature Edition of the Kindle Paperwhite with 32GB of storage for just $160 at Amazon . That’s after a 20% discount on its usual $200 price. All color options – including black, jade, and raspberry – are discounted. See at Amazon Easy on the Eyes For $160, you get Amazon’s fastest Kindle Paperwhite to date. It offers up to 25% faster page turns, so you can go through chapters and scroll your Kindle library without lags getting in the way. The 7-inch, glare-free display is both spacious and bright. It comes with a built-in book light that automatically adjusts font light based on the brightness levels of your environment for a more comfortable reading experience. You can also tweak the settings manually – go from the standard white light to warm amber when winding down in bed after a long day, or push the brightness up if you want to complete a chapter outdoors. Speaking of outdoors, this Kindle is also waterproof, so you can take your favorite titles by the pool or to the beach without worry. Maybe even take it to the bathroom if you just can’t seem to put the book down! The battery life is another strong selling point. A single charge via USB-C lasts up to 12 weeks, which means you can easily go months without worrying about topping your device up. Even better, this Kindle Paperwhite supports wired charging, which comes in handy when you’re in the mood to bother with cables. The Kindle Store features over 15 million titles worldwide. These include bestsellers and Kindle Exclusives that aren’t available anywhere else online. It’s best to get a Kindle Unlimited subscription to make the most of its massive catalog, as it gets you access to a rotating catalog without having to buy everything separately. On a regular day, you’d pay around $200 to enjoy all these features. The current 20% discount, however, lets you pick this top-rated, latest Kindle Paperwhite (Signature Edition) for just $160 . You’re saving $40 on a solution that lets you take all your favorite books anywhere in the world with you in a thin, lightweight frame. The battery life is impressively long, so you won’t have to worry about running out of power mid-chapters. See at Amazon