Amazon plans to double its launch frequency and cram more satellites into each rocket as the company races to catch up with SpaceX’s Starlink . Amazon's Leo is supposed to become more widely available later this year. But currently, the system spans just over 200 satellites—too few to kick off a robust satellite internet service. Instead, the company has been beta-testing Leo with select enterprise customers. Since it flew up its first Leo satellites in April 2025, Amazon has completed eight flights, with a ninth scheduled for Sunday. “The program is on pace to complete 11 launches in our first year of deployment,” the company said in a blog post . But for year two, Amazon says: “We’re on pace to more than double our annual launch rate to over 20 missions and send even more satellites to space at a time.” This includes using Blue Origin’s New Glenn and United Launch Alliance’s (ULA) Vulcan Centaur, two heavy-lift rockets that can carry even more Leo satellites into space. Using New Glenn and Vulcan Centaur is risky, given that both rockets have completed only a handful of launches. But if it pays off, then Amazon can launch over 40 satellites per flight, effectively doubling the deployment number. The company even went as far as to say that “the majority of Leo satellites this year will launch on new heavy-lift rockets,” which also include Arianespace’s Ariane 6 rocket. Last month, an Ariane 6 flight successfully deployed 32 Leo satellites. Amazon also says it can now pack 29 Leo satellites on ULA's older Atlas V rocket, up from 27, thanks to a new engine design. “Our engineering teams capitalized on the additional performance margin, adding a fourth level to the previous three-tier dispenser configuration for Atlas V.” The 29-satellite payload is scheduled to fly this upcoming Sunday. Get Our Best Stories! Your Daily Dose of Our Top Tech News Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. Sign up for our What's New Now newsletter to receive the latest news, best new products, and expert advice from the editors of PCMag. By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy
                                Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! (Credit: Amazon) Amazon's announcement comes ahead of a July 30, 2026, FCC deadline to have half of its 3,200-satellite operational. It filed for an extension but risks losing authorization to launch the remaining satellites needed for the network. It's unclear how the FCC will rule, but SpaceX is urging the commission to deny the extension. To prove it’s committed to launching the satellites, Amazon told the FCC it has “more than 100 missions planned through Q1 2029.” Recommended by Our Editors “By July 30, 2026, Amazon Leo expects to have deployed approximately 700 operational satellites—moving from the third-to the second-largest satellite constellation in orbit,” the company told the FCC. “By this date, Amazon Leo also expects to have its customer terminals in the hands of more enterprise and government customers, and to be poised to roll out service more broadly in the US and across the globe.” This suggests Leo might finally launch to more users in the second half of 2026—assuming it can deploy the necessary satellites on time. For perspective, Starlink became available as a beta to US consumers in late 2020 when the company had over 800 satellites in orbit. In the meantime, Amazon’s Monday announcement adds that it already has another 200-plus Leo satellites “stacked and ready for launch.” "Late last year, we secured another 10 launches on SpaceX’s Falcon 9 rocket, and we converted options with Blue Origin to give us a total of 24 firm launches on New Glenn," the company said. "Together, those additional missions provide capacity to deploy another 800+ satellites, and bring our total Leo launch manifest to more than 100 missions." About Our Expert Michael Kan Senior Reporter Experience I've been a journalist for over 15 years. I got my start as a schools and cities reporter in Kansas City and joined PCMag in 2017, where I cover satellite internet services, cybersecurity, PC hardware, and more. I'm currently based in San Francisco, but previously spent over five years in China, covering the country's technology sector. Since 2020, I've covered the launch and explosive growth of SpaceX's Starlink satellite internet service, writing 600+ stories on availability and feature launches, but also the regulatory battles over the expansion of satellite constellations, fights with rival providers like AST SpaceMobile and Amazon, and the effort to expand into satellite-based mobile service. I've combed through FCC filings for the latest news and driven to remote corners of California to test Starlink's cellular service. I also cover cyber threats, from ransomware gangs to the emergence of AI-based malware. Earlier this year, the FTC forced Avast to pay consumers $16.5 million for secretly harvesting and selling their personal information to third-party clients, as revealed in my joint investigation with Motherboard. I also cover the PC graphics card market. Pandemic-era shortages led me to camp out in front of a Best Buy to get an RTX 3000. I'm now following how President Trump's tariffs will affect the industry. I'm always eager to learn more, so please jump in the comments with feedback and send me tips. Read Full Bio