Many users are currently experiencing Android Auto issues Galaxy and Pixel phones are among those affected Samsung and Google haven't commented on the bugs yet It seems there's a major bug (or perhaps multiple bugs) affecting Android Auto right now, with significant numbers of users reporting that they are having problems connecting their phone to their vehicle's dashboard. Autoevolution has a report that highlights issues with the new Samsung Galaxy S26 phones specifically: apparently connections to Android Auto simply aren't working for these handsets for certain users, with no real clues as to why. A comprehensive post over on Reddit rounds up some of the complaints, with users even considering returning their phones: "There's no way I'm keeping this phone if it doesn't work with Android Auto," writes one Redditor . Article continues below While we've had no official comment from Samsung , some users are reporting that they have been able to get their phones working after applying the latest software patches. Others have resorted to manually installing an older version of Android Auto. Pixels too The Pixel 10 Pro is among the phones affected (Image credit: Blue Pixl Media) It's not just the Galaxy S26 phones that are having problems with Android Auto at the moment. Another Autoevolution article reports that Google Pixel phone owners are having trouble too, particularly with wired connections to their dashboard. In these cases the issues appear to have started after the recent software update Google pushed out to Pixel phones this month. One theory is that the Advanced Protection security feature on these devices is blocking the Android Auto connection. There are posts on the Android Auto help forums explaining that Android Auto won't connect while a phone is locked — which it should do. Again, there's been no official response from Google as of yet. Sign up for breaking news, reviews, opinion, top tech deals, and more. While it's hard to gauge just how many users this is affecting, there are plenty of complaints. Let's hope Google and Samsung are investigating, and are able to issue fixes for these problems sooner rather than later. Follow TechRadar on Google News and add us as a preferred source to get our expert news, reviews, and opinion in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button! And of course you can also follow TechRadar on TikTok for news, reviews, unboxings in video form, and get regular updates from us on WhatsApp too.