Senator Thom Tillis, a North Carolina Republican, issued a warning to President Donald Trump on Friday after a federal judge quashed a subpoena of Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell . Tillis warned the administration’s response to the ruling could complicate the confirmation of Kevin Warsh who is set to replace Powell as the Fed chair after his term ends in May. Warsh will need Senate confirmation to lead the central bank. “Appealing the ruling will only delay the confirmation of Kevin Warsh as the next Fed Chair,” Tillis wrote in a post to X. Newsweek reached out to the White House for comment via email. Why It Matters In January, Powell said the Department of Justice (DOJ) served the Federal Reserve with grand jury subpoenas and threatened a criminal indictment related to his testimony before a Senate committee regarding building renovations. Powell, however, said the probe should be “seen in the broader context of the administration’s threats and ongoing pressure,” as Trump has pushed the Fed to lower interest rates . Powell’s concerns raised questions about the independence of the Fed as he joined a list of perceived Trump adversaries facing criminal investigations by the administration's DOJ. What to Know On Friday, federal Judge James Boasberg, who was appointed to the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia by then-President Barack Obama in 2011, ruled against the subpoenas. “A mountain of evidence suggests that the Government served these subpoenas on the Board to pressure its Chair into voting for lower interest rates or resigning,” Boasberg wrote. He continued: “On the other side of the scale, the Government has produced essentially zero evidence to suspect Chair Powell of a crime; indeed, its justifications are so thin and unsubstantiated that the Court can only conclude that they are pretextual. The Court therefore finds that the subpoenas were issued for an improper purpose and will quash them.” Tillis has been among the leading Republican critics of the subpoena move, previously saying it raises concerns about “independence and credibility of the Department of Justice that are in question.” Tillis also said he would oppose the confirmation for any Fed nominees until the legal matter is fully resolved. He responded to Friday’s ruling in a post to X. “This ruling confirms just how weak and frivolous the criminal investigation of Chairman Powell is and it is nothing more than a failed attack on Fed independence. We all know how this is going to end and the D.C. U.S. Attorney’s Office should save itself further embarrassment and move on. Appealing the ruling will only delay the confirmation of Kevin Warsh as the next Fed Chair,” the senator wrote. Jeanine Pirro , U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia, hit out against the ruling, saying the public is “fed up with public moneys that seem to go into a black hole.” “He has neutered the grand jury's ability to investigate crime. As a result, Jerome Powell today is now bathed in immunity, preventing my office from investigating the Federal Reserve. This is wrong, and it is without legal authority,” she said. She said the DOJ would appeal, Bloomberg reported. Trump has not yet reacted to the decision. Boasberg Slams Trump Admin in Ruling Boasberg was sharply critical of the Trump administration in his ruling. He warned that being perceived as Trump’s adversary “has become risky in recent years.” “In his second term, Trump has urged the Department of Justice to prosecute such people, and the Department’s prosecutors have listened,” he wrote. “For instance, the President exhorted the Attorney General to prosecute James Comey, Adam Schiff, and Letitia James.” He wrote Trump has “berated” and “threatened” Powell in his efforts to sway the Fed to lower interest rates. Why Did Donald Trump Subpoena Jerome Powell? Powell said the probe centered on renovation costs for the Fed’s Marriner S. Eccles building and an adjacent structure. Costs have risen by $600 million over budget to $2.5 billion, driven by construction costs during the 2021-22 inflation spike, unexpected asbestos removal needs, and Washington's building-height restrictions, which require expensive underground construction. Powell described that reasoning as a pretext. He said he believes the threats are because of the Fed setting interest rates “based on our best assessment of what will serve the public, rather than following the preferences of the president.” Trump denied having any knowledge of the investigation into the Fed telling NBC News he “wouldn’t even think of doing it that way.” What People Are Saying Jeanine Pirro, U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia, also said: “One of the age-old tools that all prosecutors have to investigate any crime, including cost overruns, is a grand jury subpoena. Today, however, in Washington, an activist judge has taken that tool away from us.” Judge Boasberg also wrote: “There is abundant evidence that the subpoenas’ dominant (if not sole) purpose is to harass and pressure Powell either to yield to the President or to resign and make way for a Fed Chair who will. On the other side of the scale, the Government has offered no evidence whatsoever that Powell committed any crime other than displeasing the President. The Court must thus conclude that the asserted justifications for these subpoenas are mere pretexts. It will therefore grant the Board’s Motion to Quash.” In a polarized era, the center is dismissed as bland. At Newsweek , ours is different: The Courageous Center—it's not "both sides," it's sharp, challenging and alive with ideas. We follow facts, not factions. If that sounds like the kind of journalism you want to see thrive, we need you. When you become a Newsweek Member , you support a mission to keep the center strong and vibrant. Members enjoy: Ad-free browsing, exclusive content and editor conversations. Help keep the center courageous. Join today.