Listen on the go! A daily podcast of Wall Street Breakfast will be available by 8:00 a.m. on Seeking Alpha , iTunes , Spotify . Getty Images Good morning! Here's the latest in trending: Social problems: A Los Angeles jury found Meta ( META ) and Google ( GOOGL ) liable in a landmark case on social media addiction . Seeking a suitor: JetBlue ( JBLU ) flies high on a report that it's evaluating plans to sell itself to a rival airline. Energy crisis: Iran drafts a bill to charge Strait of Hormuz transit fees as the White House explores implications of $200 oil . Major funding challenges to social security are on the horizon, with the Senate Budget Committee holding a fresh hearing on the matter. Current estimates from the Social Security Administration and Congressional Budget Office suggest that there are only six more years before funds will face solvency problems and all payments would have to be reduced by a quarter. Structural challenges span from changing demographics like falling birth rates and a smaller-than-expected workforce, as well as longer life expectancies and people taking early retirement. Quote: "The prediction back in 1983, when we passed the last big set of reforms, was that we were going to have 75 years of solvency because it was designed to create premiums on 90% of collective earnings," added Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Budget Committee Ranking Member. "But as wealth has moved to the richest people in America, we no longer collect premiums on 90%, so it's a major factor in why we're running out of the trust fund 20 years earlier than predicted." Being pitched were several revenue provisions like taxing investment income, which could target the wealthy who don't get their income from wages. Other ideas include raising the overall tax rate or raising the cap on the maximum taxable income. The latter currently stands at $184,500, meaning any income made over that level does not deduct social security taxes from those revenues. There was also talk of establishing a diversified fund that could invest part of the money in social security trusts in areas like the stock market, but that could come with its own risks. On the benefits side, proposals were pitched for raising the retirement age or changing cost of living adjustments. Other options included increasing the number of years in the benefit formula or only increasing benefits for low-income earners. "Means testing" was additionally discussed at the hearing, which would translate into limits or disqualifications of social security disbursements if one has a certain amount of income or assets. Does this sound like socialism? Well, it is called "social security," and taxing the wealthy more and redistributing the wealth raises flags. On the other side of the equation, the wealth gap continues to grow, and regular folk paying monthly FICA taxes are at a disadvantage to the wealthy, who can minimize their earnings income through investment gains and reporting loopholes. Taxing the wealthy above the $184,500 level can also go a long way in raising revenue, but it could spark questions over social security's status as a forced saving plan, or more of a generalized welfare or insurance program. ( 11 comments ) Here's the latest Seeking Alpha analysis Current Market Rotation - One Of The Biggest Disruptions In Generations The AI Bubble Is Going To Burst It Is Time To Be Greedy The 'Dumb Money' Is Finally Getting Out Alphabet Quietly Entered A Multibillion-Dollar Market Last Week What else is happening... Iran's five conditions to end the war in the Middle East . Here's the price tag for Persian Gulf energy infrastructure repair. EPA issues waiver to allow E15 gasoline to ease pump prices . SpaceX ( SPACE ) eyes record-breaking IPO with $75B target . Starbucks ( SBUX ) tests new ordering channels at busy outlets . Reforms needed for WTO to stay relevant - EU trade commissioner . U.S. revises guidance on deeming non-banks 'too big to fail.' Texas is on track for U.S. autonomous truck development. Blue Owl ( OWL ), peers push back on private credit concerns . U.S. Army raises enlistment age limit for recruits to 42 years . Today's Markets In Asia, Japan -0.3% . Hong Kong -1.9% . China -1.1% . India closed. In Europe, at midday, London -0.9% . Paris -0.6% . Frankfurt -1% . Futures at 6:30, Dow -0.6% . S&P -0.7% . Nasdaq -0.7% . Crude +2.8% to $92.86. Gold -2.5% to $4,437.20. Bitcoin -2.4% to $69,602. Ten-year Treasury Yield +4 bps to 4.38%. On The Calendar Companies reporting today include USA Rare Earth ( USAR ) and Argan ( AGX ). See the full earnings calendar on Seeking Alpha, as well as today's economic calendar .