A view of the T-hub facility at Hitec City in Hyderabad.
                                          | Photo Credit: SIDDHANT THAKUR Telangana Budget for 2026-27 has allocated ₹875 crore for the Information Technology Department compared to the ₹774 crore in the previous Budget. Announcing this in his Budget speech on Friday, Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka said: "IT exports from the State have reached ₹3.13 lakh crore, generating employment for over 9.39 lakh people. “There is no doubt that the progress we are achieving in the IT sector has become a model for the entire country,” he declared. Telangana has more than 1,500 IT/ITES companies. Around 20% of India’s global capability centres (GCCs) are located in Hyderabad. In 2024-25 alone, more than 70 GCCs were established in the city, he said. Tech giant Google had also chosen Hyderabad for its Google Safety Engineering Centre, he added. Electronics, IMAGE policies on cards Seeking to highlight the measures being taken up by the State government towards promoting growth, attracting investments and creating employment in the IT sector, he said that the State government has launched its first and second ICT policies. In addition, it is also bringing an Electronics Policy and an IMAGE Policy, he added. With an eye on ensuring that IT growth is not confined only to the western parts of Hyderabad, the government is also promoting the GRID (Growth in Dispersion) policy to expand IT around the city, the Finance Minister said. On the government’s T-Fiber network, he said fibre connectivity has been provided to 8,888 Gram Panchayats in 424 mandals and to 4,800 government institutions. “Our target is to provide this facility to 50,000 government institutions by the end of this year,” he said, and highlighted how T-Fiber is contributing to reduce expenditure on internet services currently being used in government offices through private companies and providing secure high-speed internet. Published - March 20, 2026 06:46 pm IST